# Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Michael O’Rielly

Re: *Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet,* GN Docket No. 14-28.

Today a majority of the Commission attempts to usurp the authority of
Congress by re-writing the Communications Act to suit its own “values”
and political ends. The item claims to forbear from certain monopoly-era
Title II regulations while reserving the right to impose them using
other provisions or at some point in the future. The Commission
abdicates its role as an expert agency by defining and classifying
services based on unsupported and unreasonable findings. It fails to
account for substantial differences between fixed and mobile
technologies. It opens the door to apply these rules to edge providers.
It delegates substantial authority to the Bureaus, including how the
rules will be interpreted and enforced on a case-by-case basis. And,
lest we forget how this proceeding started, it also reinstates net
neutrality rules. Indeed, it seems that every bad idea ever floated in
the name of net neutrality has come home to roost in this
item.[^oreilly1]

To read public statements over the last few weeks, one might think that
this item uses Title II in some limited way solely to provide support
for net neutrality rules and to protect consumers. And a casual observer
might be misled to believe that the ends justify the means.

Along the way, however, the means became the end. Net neutrality is now
the pretext for deploying Title II to a far greater extent than anyone
could have imagined just months ago. And that is the reality that the
Commission tried to hide by keeping the draft from the public and
releasing a carefully worded “fact” sheet in its place.

While I see no need for net neutrality rules, I am far more troubled by
the dangerous course that the Commission is now charting on Title II and
the consequences it will have for broadband investment, edge providers,
and consumers. The Commission attempts to downplay the significance of
Title II, but make no mistake: this is not some make believe modernized
Title II light that is somehow tailored to preserve investment while
protecting consumers from blocking or throttling. It is fauxbearance:
all of Title II applied through the backdoor of sections 201 and 202 of
the Act, and section 706 of the 1996 Act. Moreover, all of it is
premised on a mythical “virtuous cycle”—not actual harms to edge
providers or consumers.

In some ways, this evolution is not surprising. I have consistently
expressed concerns, across a number of proceedings—tech transitions,
text-to-911, over-the-top video, VoIP symmetry, etc.—that this
Commission has been slowly but steadily attempting to bring over-the-top
and other IP services within its reach. Now the Commission goes all in
and subjects broadband networks—the foundation of the Internet—to Title
II itself. Furthermore, because there is no limiting principle, other
providers will eventually be drawn in as well. ‎I cannot support this
monumental and unlawful power grab.

## The Proceeding Did Not Provide Sufficient Notice and Opportunity for Comment

Last year, the Commission seemed on track to reinstate net neutrality
rules under section 706. The D.C. Circuit provided a roadmap for the
Commission and, while I strongly disagree with the court’s analysis of
section 706,[^oreilly2] a number of providers appeared ready to accept
the new regime.

Hardly anyone at the time thought that the Commission would seriously
consider applying Title II. And truth be told, the Commission did not
give it much thought either, as is evident from the NPRM. Outside
parties warned the Commission to take a few months to seek further
comment, but the Commission was not operating on its own timetable
because it has to be responsive to the political winds and views of the
perpetually outraged. As a result, the item is highly vulnerable because
the Commission did not provide adequate notice and opportunity to
comment as required by the Administrative Procedure Act (APA).

‎ To put it plainly, this is not the order that the NPRM envisioned.
While the item claims that the decisions are a logical outgrowth of a
few open ended questions tacked on the NPRM, that argument is not at all
persuasive. This is a clearly a situation where “interested parties
would have had to divine the agency’s unspoken thoughts, because the
final rule was surprisingly distant from the proposed rule.”[^oreilly3]

In fact, even within the agency, staff and Commissioners were left to
guess at the ultimate conclusions and reasoning because most of the
substance was still “in flux” just a week prior to circulation. A number
of critical decisions and rationales were not apparent until I read the
circulated draft. It is a page turner—not because it is well written but
because I literally could not predict what would come next or why, and
when I did arrive at the conclusionary paragraphs, they often lacked
foundation and sufficient justification.

Interested parties effectively had no notice or opportunity to respond
to the vast evolution that took place from NPRM to final order. Key
points include: the scope of the newly defined services, including how
they relate to each other; the legal analysis underlying the
classification or reclassification of each service; how forbearance
would apply in the context of these newly defined services; and the
theory underlying forbearance, including using sections 201, 202, and
706 to backfill other provisions.[^oreilly4] Moreover, major changes
were made during the waning hours of the Sunshine Period, including the
elimination of broadband subscriber access service, which required staff
to overhaul the discussions of broadband Internet access service and
Internet traffic exchange. Parties had no opportunity to weigh in on
these changes.

## The Findings are Not Supported by Evidence of Actual Harms

Even after enduring three weeks of spin, it is hard for me to believe
that the Commission is establishing an entire Title II/net neutrality
regime to protect against hypothetical harms.[^oreilly5] There is not a
shred of evidence that any aspect of this structure is necessary. The
D.C. Circuit called the prior, scaled-down version a “prophylactic”
approach. I call it guilt by imagination. 

Tellingly, although we received a record-breaking number of comments,
those comments did not reveal any additional instances of actual harm to
consumers.‎ The item is sprinkled with references to what an ISP “may”,
“could”, “might”, or “potentially” to do to block or degrade
applications, services, or content, but no new tangible violations. To
be sure, the item selectively quotes a statement that a provider was
interested in exploring commercial arrangements. Yet those
“arrangements” were sponsored data plans—something that the Commission
has not (as of yet) determined to be a net neutrality
violation.[^oreilly6]

Moreover, the Commission, once again, takes a pass on performing a
market power analysis in favor of repetitive invocation of the “virtuous
cycle” nonsense. That may have been good enough to narrowly survive
review when all that was at stake was net neutrality rules. But that’s
no guarantee that such ‎flimsy reasoning will withstand another round
(or two) of scrutiny now that all of Title II hangs in the balance as
well.

The APA requires an agency to “examine the relevant data and articulate
a satisfactory explanation for its action including a ‘rational
connection between the facts found and the choice made.’”[^oreilly7]
These rules, however, are not based on facts or data but on
unsubstantiated fears of future wrongdoing. The item regurgitates the
theory that ISPs act as “gatekeepers” between edge providers and
consumers. Specifically, as the provider of access to end users, an ISP
supposedly has the ability and incentive to disadvantage other network
providers, edge providers, and end users. But while the item makes an
economic argument, it does not back it up with economic analysis. The
theory that rests on claims that consumers might not switch providers
because consumers “may experience” switching costs, that bundled pricing
“can also play a role” in reducing churn, and that consumers “may be
confused” about their service.[^oreilly8] Difficulty switching providers
“is certainly a factor that might contribute to a firm’s having market
power, but that itself is not market power.”[^oreilly9]

Moreover, the theory breaks down completely when it comes to small
ISPs.[^oreilly10] Many small providers—including WISPs, small cable
providers, and municipal broadband providers—have made the case that
they do not have the leverage to interfere with edge providers. As one
group put it, “These ISPs cannot compel payments for unblocking,
non-discriminatory treatment or paid prioritization services because
each serves too few Internet subscribers to matter to edge providers
such as Netflix, Amazon or Hulu, who have hundreds of millions of
subscribers combined in the U.S. and internationally.”[^oreilly11]
Moreover, it is simply not in the interest of small providers that are
trying to grow their businesses and compete against larger providers to
block or degrade their customers’ connections.

While “an agency’s predictive judgments about the likely economic
effects of a rule” are entitled to deference, “deference to such …
judgment[s] must be based on some logic and evidence, not sheer
speculation.”[^oreilly12] The predictions in this item are based on pure
conjecture and deserve no deference.

## Title II is an Extreme Solution to an Imaginary Problem

While some providers may have been willing to live with net neutrality
rules under section 706 based on nothing more than speculative harms, it
is an entirely different matter to impose Title II without concrete
evidence that doing so is absolutely necessary. The item supposedly
invokes Title II in order to put the net neutrality rules on the firmest
legal footing. But Title II is far more than a convenient legal
theory—it is a comprehensive set of regulations designed to rein in
monopoly telephone companies.[^oreilly13] And it is laden with decades
of precedent that cannot be shrugged off with simple incantations like,
“To the extent our prior precedents suggest otherwise, for the reasons
discussed in the text, we disavow such an interpretation as applied to
the open Internet context.”[^oreilly14]

There is a reason that Title II has been called the nuclear option. No
matter what the FCC tries to do to limit the fallout (and it is not
trying very hard to do that here) the decision will still impact
investments. As one analyst reportedly wrote just last week, “terminal
growth rate assumptions need to be lowered…Title II is about price
regulation. It would be naïve to believe that the imposition of a regime
that is fundamentally about price regulation, in an industry that the
FCC has now repeatedly declared to be non-competitive, wouldn’t
introduce risk to future pricing power.”[^oreilly15]

While the FCC tailors certain statements from providers to reject
assertions that Title II will “substantially diminish overall broadband
investment”, that doesn’t give me a lot of comfort.[^oreilly16] Even a
*modest* reduction is too great a price to pay when weighed against
purely speculative harms. Moreover, the harms to small ISPs will be
disproportionately severe and the FCC gives them no reprieve from Title
II whatsoever.

Incredibly, the item gives significant weight to a theoretical cost of
forgone innovation but gives essentially no weight to the cost of
forgone investment. I am far more concerned about the Americans that
will remain unserved as a result of our rules. Forget about an open
Internet; they have no Internet. We need to be focused on ways to
promote deployment, and not in some roundabout virtuous cycle way, but
through proven deregulatory measures. I am very concerned that, far from
a virtuous cycle, we are creating a vicious cycle where regulation
deters investment in broadband and that begets more regulation to
stimulate competition and deployment that will further deter investment.
In other words, the beatings will continue until morale improves.

The item trots out three examples of Title II “success stories” but they
are all inapposite. First, it notes that during the time that mobile
voice service has been subject to Title II, investment has flourished.
But that assumes that companies were investing in their mobile networks
for the sake of *voice* service. That is plainly not the case. That
investment was made to improve the capacity of the networks to handle
mobile *broadband* traffic.[^oreilly17]

Second, it points to rural carriers that opted to provide a transmission
service on a common carriage basis. Many did so, but not for the sake of
Title II. They did so to participate in the NECA tariff and pooling
process, which helps stabilize cost recovery and reduce administrative
costs.[^oreilly18]

Third, it points to forbearance from certain provisions of Title II as
applied to enterprise broadband. In that situation, a heavily regulated
service was granted some measure of relief, improving the case for
investment. Here we would be subjecting services to greater regulation,
which is another matter entirely. Furthermore, if enterprise broadband
forbearance is such a success story, then why has it taken the
Commission so long to act on a pending “me too” enterprise forbearance
petition?

## The Commission’s Decision to Classify Broadband Internet Access Service as a Telecommunications Service is Contrary to Law and Fact

Notably, the item not only reverses its decision to treat broadband
Internet access service as an information service, but it also
determines, for the first time, that Title II applies to the entire
service—not just a transmission component. As one provider put it, “the
conclusion that retail ‘broadband Internet access’ is a
telecommunications service is contrary to the plain text of multiple
provisions of the Communications Act, decades of Commission decisions,
and the views of all nine Supreme Court Justices in [*Brand
X*].”[^oreilly19]

The item also gives short shrift to the argument that prior decisions to
classify broadband Internet access service as an information service
“engendered serious reliance interests that must be taken into
account.”[^oreilly20] For example, one White Paper noted, “the
Commission expressly invited the reliance at issue here: When it
classified mobile broadband as an integrated information service more
than seven years ago, it explained that ‘[t]hrough this classification,
we provide the regulatory certainty needed to help spur growth and
deployment of these services.’”[^oreilly21] Under these circumstances,
the Commission must “provide a more detailed justification” for changing
course “than what would suffice for a new policy created on a blank
slate.”[^oreilly22]

The item utterly fails that test. It counters that a few carefully
selected statements by providers and investors show that classifications
have an indirect impact on investment. It does not respond at all to the
White Paper and, as noted above, this type of reasoning doesn’t account
for foregone investment. Moreover, statements from 2010 are inapposite
because the reclassification under discussion at the time concerned a
transmission component. Here we are talking about reclassifying the
entire retail broadband service and regulating Internet traffic exchange
to boot. There’s simply no comparison. Additionally, arguing that
providers should have known since 2000 that this was a real possibility
is disingenuous to the extreme given that the FCC leadership itself did
not know if or how it would use Title II almost up until today’s vote.
And saying that the forbearance keeps reclassification within the bounds
of Title I is laughable given that the relief is really fauxbearance.

The significant legal infirmities, which have been persuasively
demonstrated in the record and by my colleague Commissioner Pai, are
enough to overturn the decision. Yet I am just as troubled by the
substantial factual errors underlying the decision. Adherence to
“factually unsupportable assertion[s]” shows that the Commission has
“abdicate[d] its role as the expert federal agency on communications
networks and services, and ignore[d] the administrative record in this
proceeding.”[^oreilly23]

Once again, the item relies heavily on providers’ advertisements—this
time to claim that the broadband Internet access service that they are
offering is merely “a conduit for the transmission of data across the
Internet.”[^oreilly24] But that is no basis for changing the
classification now; speeds have always been the focus of broadband
ads.[^oreilly25] Moreover, as one provider observed, “when consumers use
broadband, their goal is not simply to ‘send’ and ‘receive’ information
from one end point to another. Rather, they aim to acquire, retrieve,
and manipulate information located on remote servers. These are all
fundamental attributes of information services: the driver is the
information, not the transportation of the information.”[^oreilly26]

Conveniently, the item also determines that other functionalities of
Internet access, such as DNS and caching, that were previously
considered enhanced services or information services, now fall within
the telecommunications management exception to the definition of
information services or do not affect the fundamental nature of
broadband Internet access service. As such, the item claims that they do
not turn broadband Internet access service into a functionally
integrated information service. This is absurd. The very essence of
functionalities like DNS and caching is to provide the “capability for
generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing, retrieving,
utilizing, or making available information via
telecommunications.”[^oreilly27] Thus, these ISP functions do not exist
solely to “facilitate” transmission or make it more
“useful”;[^oreilly28] they are “what allow consumers to interact with
and obtain information, as well as to make their own information
available.”[^oreilly29] Indeed, the item points out that CDN caching
remains an information service, thereby undercutting the classification
of ISP caching, because the only difference between the two, according
to the item, is the extent to which CDN caching is deployed within
networks. Accordingly, contrary to the item, all services that include
such functions also must meet the statutory definition of an information
service.[^oreilly30]

The item also emphasizes that consumers increasingly use third parties
for services such as email, website hosting, DNS, newsgroups, and video
streaming. Yet that ignores the Commission’s prior determinations that
“[t]he information service classification applies regardless of whether
subscribers use all of the functions and capabilities provided as part
of the service (e.g., e-mail or web-hosting), and whether every wireline
broadband Internet access service provider offers each function and
capability that could be included in that service.”[^oreilly31]

## The Commission Cannot “Subsume” Internet Traffic Exchange into Broadband Internet Access Service to Regulate it Under Title II

The record is replete with evidence that content providers and network
operators enter into interconnection relationships with ISPs through
individually negotiated private agreements.[^oreilly32] Regardless of
the form they take—“peering,” “transit,” or “on-net-only”—providers do
not hold themselves out to serve the public indifferently.[^oreilly33]
When considering whether to enter into these “voluntary, market-based
agreements,” providers “independently make decisions about
interconnection by weighing the benefits and costs on a case-by-case
basis.”[^oreilly34] As one provider stated, “the exchange of Internet
traffic invariably entails arrangements between sophisticated commercial
parties with very large amounts of traffic and their own network
facilities – parties that directly connect only when they perceive
mutual value in doing so.”[^oreilly35] Indeed, another provider noted
that providers reserve the right not to enter into agreements even where
guidelines are met.[^oreilly36] This “flexibility to customize service
arrangements for a particular customer is the hallmark of private
carriage, which is the antithesis of common carriage.”[^oreilly37] As
such, these arrangements, which some mistakenly refer to as
“interconnection”, have never been regulated as common carriage services
subject to Title II.[^oreilly38]

Undeterred by this long history, the item concocts a novel service
laundering scheme. It attempts to transform this “interconnection” into
a telecommunications service by “subsuming” it into another
service—broadband Internet access service. Specifically, because
providers supposedly hold themselves out to provide broadband Internet
access service, that includes a “representation” to customers that they
will be able to reach “all or substantially all Internet endpoints”, and
that representation necessarily includes the “promise” to make the
interconnection arrangements necessary to allow that access.[^oreilly39]
And just like that, retail broadband Internet access service is no
longer a last mile service; it is the entire “Internet traffic path”,
including all Internet traffic relationships.

This approach is riddled with holes. First, such “interconnection” has
always been understood to be distinct from the last mile, including in
this proceeding.[^oreilly40] Second, the item does not show how this
service laundering scheme is consistent with precedent. Third, it
depends on broadband Internet access service being a telecommunications
service, which it is not. Fourth, there was absolutely no notice for
this novel approach. Even parties that guessed that interconnection
might be subject to Title II (despite the lack of notice) clearly did
not understand that the primary mechanism for doing so would be to
re-interpret broadband Internet access service to include
interconnection.[^oreilly41]

Moreover, this shift to regulate Internet traffic exchange highlights
that the Commission’s real end game has become imposing Title II on all
parts of the Internet, not just setting up net neutrality rules. Parties
noted that interconnection arrangements are unrelated to last-mile net
neutrality concerns.[^oreilly42] But the item doesn’t attempt to apply
the net neutrality rules to Internet traffic exchange; it applies Title
II. To be sure, it does so under the guise of net neutrality. But the
market for Internet traffic exchange serves a far broader purpose than
ensuring that retail consumers are able to reach points on the
Internet.[^oreilly43] In subjecting a thriving, competitive market to
regulation in the name of net neutrality, the Commission is trying to
use a small hook and a thin line to reel in a very large whale. This
line will surely break.

## Mobile broadband services warrant different regulatory treatment

Similarly, this item, for the first time, subsumes mobile broadband
services under Title II common carrier regulation, reversing decades of
precedent. Until now, the Commission has followed Congress’s mandate
under section 332 of the Communications Act and has correctly exercised
regulatory restraint by classifying mobile broadband as an information
service free from common carrier regulation as required by the
statute.[^oreilly44] Yet today, we use sleight of hand to change our
definitions so that overnight mobile broadband magically falls under the
confines of Title II.

In subjecting wireless broadband to Title II, the majority ignores
fundamental differences between the wireless and fixed broadband
industries and technologies. Unlike last century’s voice-only telephone
service, the wireless sector has developed and flourished in a fiercely
competitive environment.[^oreilly45] Wireless consumers have ample
choices and can readily switch between offerings.[^oreilly46] This
competition has yielded unparalleled investment and innovation, lower
prices, higher speeds and product differentiation as sector participants
vie for an edge to attract and retain subscribers.[^oreilly47] Applying
a regulatory regime established for monopoly voice service to the
dynamic mobile sector defies logic.

The majority also flagrantly ignores the fundamental technical and
operational requirements necessary for mobile broadband networks. Unlike
fixed systems, mobile network capacity is constrained by the relative
scarcity of spectrum resources. Given this unique limitation, wireless
providers must maintain their ability to vigorously and nimbly mitigate
the congestion inherent to wireless networks.[^oreilly48] I expect that
the rigid Title II rules adopted today will hamstring the smooth
functioning of these networks. Although some may argue that the
exception for reasonable network management will allow such flexibility,
a case-by-case approach whereby a wireless provider’s congestion
management practices are judged after the fact by the Commission’s
Enforcement Bureau is unlikely to provide much comfort to wireless
providers.

Finally, the majority defines mobile broadband as a telecommunications
service without adequately explaining its rationale for the drastic
change of course.[^oreilly49] In addition, there has been no meaningful
opportunity for public comment on this change of definition.[^oreilly50]
This action is nothing less than an attempt to improperly capture mobile
broadband under Title II, in direct contravention of congressional
intent,[^oreilly51] and it is not likely to survive judicial scrutiny.

## The Promised Forbearance is Fauxbearance

Perhaps the most surprising—and troubling—aspect of the item is that it
promises forbearance from most of Title II but does not actually forbear
from the substance of those provisions. Instead, the item intends to
provide the same protections using a few of the “core” Title II
provisions that are retained: chiefly, sections 201, 202, and 706. I
call this maneuver fauxbearance.

The item is quite candid about this strategy, stating, “[A]pplying
[sections 201 and 202] enables us to protect consumers of broadband
Internet access service from potentially harmful conduct by broadband
providers both by providing a basis for our open Internet rules *and for
the important statutory backstop they provide regarding broadband
provider practices more generally*.”[^oreilly52] Indeed, in section
after section, the item claims to forbear from a provision but then
quickly points to available protections in other provisions that
effectively gut the forbearance. It’s an end run for purposes of spin
and allows proponents to claim that it’s a new “modern Title II” when
really it only would exclude 56 percent directly and even then allow the
inexcusably broad language of certain sections to govern. Suffice it to
say, the majority seems to be comfortable with suggesting that they can
forbear from parts of Title II because section 201 does it all anyway. I
will highlight a just few examples to make my point:

*Fauxbearance from Tariffing (sections 203, 204)*: To quote the item,
“It is our predictive judgment that [the protections in sections 201 and
202 of the Act] will be adequate to protect the interests of
consumers—including the interest in just, reasonable, and
nondiscriminatory conduct—that might otherwise be threatened by the
actions of broadband providers. Importantly, broadband providers also
are subject to complaints and Commission enforcement in the event that
they violate sections 201 or 202 of the Act, the open Internet rules, or
other elements of the core broadband Internet access
requirements.”[^oreilly53] This is backdoor rate-setting authority.

*Fauxbearance from Information Collection and Reporting (sections 211,
213, 215, 218-20)*: “[S]ection 706 of the 1996 Act, along with other
statutory provisions, give the Commission authority to collect necessary
information.” (Citing as one example the Special Access Data Collection,
which relied on sections 201 and 202 of the Act and section 706 of the
1996 Act).[^oreilly54]

*Fauxbearance from Discontinuance Approval (section 214(a))*: “Further,
the conduct standards in our open Internet rules provide important
protections against reduction or impairment of broadband Internet access
service short of the complete cessation of providing that
service.”[^oreilly55]

*Fauxbearance from Duty to Maintain Adequate Facilities (section
214(d))*: “In practice, we expect that the exercise of this duty here
would overlap significantly with the sorts of behaviors we would expect
providers to have marketplace incentives to engage in voluntarily as
part of the ‘virtuous cycle.’ Beyond that…it is our predictive judgment
that other protections will be sufficient to ensure just, reasonable,
and nondiscriminatory conduct by providers of broadband Internet access
service and to protect consumers….”[^oreilly56]

*Fauxbearance from Interconnection and Market-Opening (sections 251,
252, 256)*: “The Commission retains authority under sections 201, 202
and the open Internet rules to require a provider of broadband Internet
access to address interconnection issues should they arise, including
through evaluating whether broadband providers’ conduct is just and
reasonable on a case-by-case basis. We therefore conclude that these
remaining legal protections that apply with respect to providers of
broadband Internet access service will enable us to act if needed to
ensure that a broadband provider does not unreasonably refuse to provide
service or interconnect.”[^oreilly57]

Section 201 is apparently so broad that it is even a backstop for
section 202. Several commenters had pointed out that the Commission has
interpreted Title II—specifically, section 202(a)—to allow carriers to
engage in reasonable discrimination, including by charging certain
customers more for better or faster service.[^oreilly58] But we are told
that is longer an obstacle because the Commission can simply ban service
differentiation as an unjust and unreasonable practice under section
201(b).[^oreilly59] While courts have determined that sections 201 and
202 afford the Commission with substantial discretion, it is not
unbounded. This statutory shell game seems to be height of arbitrary and
capricious rulemaking.

Yet even if one were to buy the story that the Commission is granting
broad forbearance, that only serves to undercut the argument for Title
II in the first place. Broad forbearance would prove that Title II is
ill-suited for the dynamic broadband market. As one provider stated,
“The very fact that the Commission feels the need to re-work so many
provisions of Title II is proof that Congress never intended for Title
II to apply to broadband providers.”[^oreilly60] It would be evident
that the Commission is merely engaging in an end-run around the statute
in order to advance its own vision.

## The Commission Does Not Have Authority to Re-Write the Act

The Supreme Court has made clear that “an agency has no power to
‘tailor’ legislation to bureaucratic policy goals” by interpreting a
statute to create a regulatory system “unrecognizable to the Congress
that designed it.”[^oreilly61] Yet the item attempts to do just that by
engaging in a wholesale re-write of the Communications Act to advance
its own vision for the Internet.

The item casts its re-write as a “modernized” version of Title II. In
doing so, the Commission forgets that “it may not exercise its authority
in a manner that is inconsistent with the administrative structure that
Congress enacted into law.”[^oreilly62] Congress gave us 48 provisions
in Title II, but apparently all we really need is section 151 (which
establishes the FCC and gives it authority over all interstate service)
and 201 (which provides the substantive basis for all FCC rules). Or, to
put it another way: “Presto, we have a new statute”.[^oreilly63] It is
the unified theory of communications law.

Moreover, the Commission cannot cast aside specific provisions in favor
of more general provisions of the Act. If Congress had thought that
sections 201 and 202 provided the authority necessary to regulate
interconnection, for example, then why was it compelled to add section
251 in 1996? The fact that Congress added more specific provisions is,
by itself, evidence that the Commission does not have sufficient
authority to do what the item envisions with the “core” Title II
provisions. Indeed, “such an argument implies that the provision being
forborne is redundant or surplus.”[^oreilly64] And it is axiomatic that
statutes should be construed “so as to avoid rendering superfluous” any
statutory language.[^oreilly65]

Additionally, the fact that the agency has forbearance authority does
not justify the re-write. Using Title II combined with forbearance to
cherry pick its preferred provisions is an egregious abuse of
forbearance authority. As the D.C. Circuit has explained, “To further
the deregulatory aims underlying the 1996 overhaul of the Communications
Act, Congress provided the FCC with the unusual authority to forbear
from enforcing provisions of the Act as well as its own
regulations.”[^oreilly66] That is, forbearance was intended to *relieve*
carriers of *existing* regulations during a time of regulatory
transition. It was not meant to be used as a tool to selectively subject
new services to previously inapplicable provisions.

This deregulatory objective is reinforced by other provisions enacted at
the same time. For example, in the same Title of the 1996 Act, Congress
directed the Commission to engage in a biennial review of regulations
adopted under the Act and remove regulations that were no longer
justified.[^oreilly67] Therefore, increasing regulation would run
counter to this plain intent.

Congress was even clearer with respect to the minimal regulatory
treatment it expected for the Internet and Internet access services. In
section 230(b)(2), Congress stated that it is the policy of the United
States “to preserve the vibrant and competitive free market that
presently exists for the Internet and other interactive computer
services, unfettered by Federal or State regulation”.[^oreilly68]
Congress defined an “interactive computer service” as “any information
service, system, or access software provider that provides or enables
computer access by multiple users to a computer server, including
specifically a service or system that provides access to the Internet
and such systems operated or services offered by libraries or
educational institutions.”[^oreilly69] Accordingly, applying new rules
to broadband would be contrary to the Act, even if one was to accept the
misguided premise that this hortatory language provides any authority.

This usurpation of Congressional authority is especially troubling given
that Congress started the process to legislate in this space. The FCC
leadership did not even consider a brief pause to see that process play
out. Instead, they invited Congress to supplement the FCC’s re-write.
Not surprisingly, the FCC’s arrogance has already invited greater
Congressional scrutiny and the FCC ultimately could see its authority
curtailed in many areas.

## Case-by-case Enforcement Will be a Trap for the Unwary

The FCC “fact” sheet promised bright line rules, but the reality is that
the bulk of this rulemaking will be conducted through case-by-case
adjudication, mostly at the Bureau level and in the courts. To be sure,
there are three bright line rules: no blocking, no throttling, and no
paid prioritization. But those are mere needles in a Title II haystack.

Many practices will be reviewed under the general conduct standard that
will be, quite literally, a catch-*all*. Moreover, charges, practices,
and classifications will also be reviewed under the amorphous just and
reasonable standard in sections 201 and 202. Parties will have no way of
knowing, in advance, how a Bureau or the Commission—much less courts
acting pursuant to sections 206 and 207[^oreilly70]—will rule on a
particular matter. There will be no certainty. Indeed, one public
interest group called the catch-all a “recipe for overreach and
confusion”.[^oreilly71]

The item notes that parties may seek an advisory opinion, which appears
utterly useless: they are only available in certain circumstances and
are not binding. (I’m also not sure why any party would want to refer
itself to the Enforcement Bureau when its request could be used against
it later.)

Those that haven’t monitored enforcement actions should take heed: the
Commission has enforced statutory provisions even where it has not
“give[n] fair notice of conduct that is forbidden or
required.”[^oreilly72] This happened in the *Terracom Notice of Apparent
Liability for Forfeiture* where the Commission determined, for the first
time—during an enforcement action—that sections 201 and 222 cover data
protection.[^oreilly73] As I explained at length in my dissent, the
Commission had never adopted any rules to that effect. To the contrary,
prior orders had made clear that the Commission viewed section 222 as
being limited to CPNI.[^oreilly74] Moreover, if data protection falls
within the ambit of 201(b), then I can only imagine what else might be a
practice “in connection with” a communications service. There is no
limiting principle. I would also note that this was a situation where
the provider voluntarily disclosed the data breach to the Enforcement
Bureau and Wireline Competition Bureau.

## This is Just the Beginning

Although there are many caveats about what “this item” does, the
Commission’s path forward is clear. For example, the Commission claims
that this item does not require broadband providers to contribute to the
federal universal service fund at this time. But that’s because it
defers that decision to a pending proceeding which is likely to result
in new fees on broadband service.

Nor can providers take any comfort in the item’s other promises to
refrain from further regulation. In particular, the item repeatedly
disavows any present intent to adopt *ex ante* rate regulation. Banning
paid prioritization is, itself, a form of *ex ante* rate regulation.
Additionally, the Commission fully intends to review rates after the
fact. As one group noted, “[A]llowing post hoc scrutiny of broadband
rates through the filing of complaints (either before the Commission or
in federal court) is “rate regulation” in the purest sense—no less so
than ex ante requirements to file tariffs or to seek Commission approval
for rate changes.”[^oreilly75] The Commission expressly contemplates
examining, on a case-by-case basis, whether interconnection agreements
are just and reasonable under sections 201 and 202. That necessarily
includes an evaluation of the rates, terms, and conditions of such
arrangements. The Commission also intends to review data allowances and
usage-based pricing plans on a case-by-case basis.

Moreover, last-mile ISPs aren’t the only ones that should be concerned
by today’s actions. The item attempts—albeit in a failed way—to carve
out, for now, CDNs, transit providers, backbone providers, edge
providers, and certain specialized services, including e-readers. But
the new legal framework for telecommunications services has let the
proverbial genie out of the bottle. As one association observed, “the
Commission should not and cannot legally or logically distinguish
between kinds of broadband transmission (e.g., last-mile, middle-mile,
etc.) in classifying broadband as a telecommunications service. If data
are conveyed from points A to Z or exchanged between networks of any
kind, those functions are broadband transmission – and the mere location
of that transmission at a given point in the network ecosystem is
irrelevant by itself to regulatory classification.”[^oreilly76] In other
words, the decisions made today will necessarily impact future
decisions. The fact that certain decisions will happen later does
nothing to diminish the culpability of the current majority.

For all of these reasons, I dissent.

[^oreilly1]: Perhaps not *every* bad idea. At least the Commission won’t
    be separately classifying and regulating “broadband subscriber
    access service,” which was widely regarded to be an imaginary
    service.

[^oreilly2]: *See, e.g.*, The Free State Foundation, [*Section 706, Wild
    Assumptions, and Regulatory Restraint*](styles.xml) (Mar. 31, 2014),
    http://freestatefoundation.blogspot.com/2014/03/section-706-wild-assumptions-and.html.

[^oreilly3]: *Agape Church, Inc. v. FCC*, 738 F.3d 397, 411 (D.C. Cir.
    2013).

[^oreilly4]: *See, e.g*., Letter from Henry G. Hultquist, AT&T to
    Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28 & 10-127 at 2 (filed
    Feb. 19, 2015) (AT&T Feb. 19, 2015 Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001031079 (“The
    Commission’s failure to provide adequate notice for a number of the
    proposals under consideration has resulted in a record that is
    bereft of support for the Commission’s actions. For example, the
    Commission has no record basis on which it could determine that
    every ISP holds itself out as a common carrier. To give just one
    example, AT&T does not offer its GigaPower service indifferently to
    the public, and there is no basis in the record on which the
    Commission could mandate that AT&T do so.”); Letter from William H.
    Johnson, Verizon to Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28
    &10-127 at 4 (filed Feb. 19, 2015) (Verizon Feb. 19, 2015 Title II
    Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001031374 (“For
    starters, the Open Internet NPRM did not even mention
    “adjunct-to-basic” services, so the Commission cannot justify its
    action on that rationale.”); Letter from Scott K. Bergmann, CTIA to
    Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28 & 10-127 at 6 (filed
    Dec. 22, 2014) (CTIA Dec. 22, 2014 White Paper),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001014008 (“[T]he Notice
    asked only whether mobile broadband Internet access service ‘fit[s]
    … the definition of ‘commercial mobile radio service.’” … “It never
    asked whether ‘the definition’ – set out in Section 20.3 – should be
    changed, or provided notice that it might be.”)(internal citation
    omitted); Letter from Kathryn A. Zachem, Comcast to Marlene H.
    Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28 & 10-127 at 6 (filed Jan. 30,
    2015) (Comcast Jan. 30, 2015 Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001024748 (“As an
    initial matter, the Open Internet NPRM gave no notice of any
    proposal to reclassify Internet traffic exchange as a Title II
    service. Although the NPRM raised the prospect that the FCC could
    depart from its historical approach of excluding interconnection
    issues from open Internet rules – asking whether it “should expand
    the scope of the open Internet rules to cover issues related to
    traffic exchange” – it nowhere suggested that the Commission might
    reclassify ISPs’ interconnection-related services to achieve that
    end.”) (internal citation omitted); Letter from Matthew A. Brill,
    Counsel to National Cable & Telecommunications Association, to
    Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 10-127 (Jan. 14, 2015)
    (NCTA Jan. 14, 2015 Ex Parte Letter).

[^oreilly5]: *Nat’l Fuel Gas Supply Corp. v. FERC*, 468 F.3d 831, 844
    (D.C. Cir. 2006) (finding that “if [an agency] chooses to rely
    solely on a theoretical threat, it will need to explain how the
    potential danger …unsupported by a record of abuse, justifies such
    costly prophylactic rules”).

[^oreilly6]: Letter from William H. Johnson, Verizon to Marlene H.
    Dortch, FCC, GN Docket No. 14-28 at 1-2 (filed Feb. 11, 2015)
    (Verizon Feb. 11, 2015 Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001028587. In a single
    footnote, the item trots out the same three outdated examples it has
    cited in the past. It does not cite any other subsequent examples.

[^oreilly7]: *Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n of U.S., Inc. v. State Farm Mut.
    Auto. Ins. Co*., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983) (quoting *Burlington Truck
    Lines v. United States,* 371 U.S. 156, 168 (1962)).

[^oreilly8]: *Supra* para. 81.

[^oreilly9]: *Verizon v. FCC,* 740 F.3d 623, 664 (D.C. Cir. 2014)
    (Silberman, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).

    Moreover, there is a “significant rate of switching by wireless
    broadband subscribers.” Letter from Kathleen Grillo, Verizon to
    Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket No. 14-28 (filed Jan. 15, 2015)
    (Verizon Jan. 15, 2015 Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001013599 (attaching
    Andres V. Lerner and Janusz A. Ordover, *“Terminating Access
    Monopoly” Theory and the Provision of Broadband Internet Access*, at
    10-11 (Jan. 15, 2015) (“Wireless subscriber monthly churn rates in
    the third quarter of 2014 were 1.0% for Verizon and AT&T, 1.6% for
    T-Mobile, and 2.2% for Sprint, which means that 12 percent of
    Verizon and AT&T customers, 19 percent of T-Mobile customers, and 26
    percent of Sprint customers, churn each year.”). Additionally,
    “[a]ll four nationwide carriers offer pro-rated ETF policies that
    lower the costs to consumers who transfer services.” Letter from
    William H. Johnson, Verizon to Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket No.
    14-28 at 5 (filed Feb. 19, 2015) (Verizon Feb. 19, 2015 Wireless Ex
    Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001031470.

    “Nor could the Commission find that any participant in the
    marketplace for Internet interconnection has market power, including
    those that also provide broadband Internet access.” Letter from Gary
    L. Phillips, AT&T to Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28
    &10-127 at 9 (filed Feb. 2, 2015) (AT&T Feb. 2, 2015 Common Carrier
    Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001025387. *See also*
    *infra* note 37.

[^oreilly10]: The only concession to small providers is a temporary
    reprieve from the enhanced disclosure requirements. There is no
    relief from Title II. Moreover, ACA, NCTA and WISPA pointed out that
    the Commission did not adequately address the impact of Title II on
    small providers in the NPRM and Initial Regulatory Flexibility Act
    (IRFA) analysis. *See, e.g*., Letter from Ross Lieberman, ACA, Lisa
    Schoenthaler, NCTA, and Stephen Coran, WISPA, to Tom Wheeler, FCC,
    GN Docket No. 14-28 at 4 (filed Jan. 9, 2015) (“The proposal of the
    most concern and potential significant negative impact on small
    broadband providers – whether wireline and wireless, fixed or mobile
    – is the FCC’s proposal to regulate information services under Title
    II. However, there is no discussion in the NPRM nor IRFA of the
    major changes that a Title II regulatory scheme will impose on small
    broadband providers.”).

[^oreilly11]: Matthew M. Polka, American Cable Association, *FCC Must
    Address Harm to Small and Medium-Sized ISPs from Title II
    Regulation* (Feb. 9, 2015), http://americancable.org/node/5189;
    Letter from Barbara S. Esbin, Counsel to American Cable Association,
    to Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28 & 10-127 at 3-4
    (filed Feb. 2, 2015),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001025667.

    “Indeed, across the broad array of broadband providers that
    USTelecom represents, the vast majority *pay* to request and receive
    Internet traffic. It belies common sense and economics to suggest
    that a broadband provider that is paying to receive Internet traffic
    has a meaningful ‘terminating access monopoly.’” Letter from
    Jonathan Banks, USTelecom to Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos.
    14-28 & 10-127 at 3 (filed Feb. 18, 2015) (USTelecom Ex Parte
    Letter).

[^oreilly12]: *Sorenson Communications Inc. v. F.C.C*., 755 F.3d 702,
    708 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (quoting *Nat’l Tel. Coop. Ass’n v. FCC,* 563
    F.3d 536, 541 (D.C. Cir. 2009); *Verizon v. FCC,* 740 at 663
    (Silberman, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part)).

[^oreilly13]: Letter from Berin Szoka, Tech Freedom et al. to Chairman
    Wheeler, FCC, GN Docket No. 14-28 at 2 (filed Sept. 15, 2014),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=7522679800. Moreover,
    “Title II would undermine 15 years of American insistence around the
    world that the Internet shouldn’t be regulated under traditional
    telecom rules.” *Id*. at 1.

[^oreilly14]: *See, e.g., supra* note 753.

[^oreilly15]: Kery Murakami, *Wheeler Defends Proposed Net Neutrality
    Rules at NARUC*, COMM. DAILY at 4, 6 (Feb. 18, 2015) (quoting Craig
    Moffett).

[^oreilly16]: *Supra* para. 414.

[^oreilly17]: Verizon Feb. 19, 2015 Wireless Ex Parte Letter at 1-2
    (“Chairman Wheeler, for example, has written that ‘[o]ver the last
    21 years, the wireless industry has invested almost \$300 billion’
    under rules ‘similar’ to those he is proposing for broadband
    Internet access, ‘proving that modernized Title II regulation can
    encourage investment and competition.’ This analogy is misplaced.
    The wireless industry’s capital expenditures have been driven not
    primarily by CMRS voice service offerings, but by Title I mobile
    broadband services offered over 3G and 4G platform.”) (internal
    citation omitted).

[^oreilly18]: Letter from Richard A. Askoff, NECA et. al to Marlene H.
    Dortch, FCC, CC Docket No. 02-33 & WC Docket No. 04-36 (July 26,
    2005), http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=6518022135 (“Over
    900 small telephone companies currently offer Digital Subscriber
    Line (DSL) transmission services under NECA’s tariff and participate
    in associated revenue pools. Existing NECA tariff and pooling
    arrangements permit these companies to offer new services in an
    efficient and timely manner, while providing stable monthly cash
    flows and protection against unexpected demand reductions or
    increased costs. Absent pooling, for example, the potential loss of
    only one large customer could make a significant difference in
    whether a rural company can risk investments in new service
    deployments.”).

[^oreilly19]: Letter from Gary L. Phillips, AT&T to Marlene H. Dortch,
    FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28 &10-127 at 1 (filed Feb. 18, 2015) (AT&T
    Feb. 18, 2015 Fact Sheet Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001030836.

[^oreilly20]: *FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc*., 556 U.S. 502, 515
    (2009).

[^oreilly21]: CTIA Dec. 22, 2014 White Paper at 21 (citing *Appropriate
    Regulatory Treatment for Broadband Access to the Internet Over
    Wireless Networks*, WT Docket No. 07-53, Declaratory Ruling, 22 FCC
    Rcd 5901, 5911 ¶ 27 (2007)).

[^oreilly22]: *FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc*., 556 U.S. at 515*.*

[^oreilly23]: Letter from Austin H. Schlick, Google to Marlene H.
    Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28 &10-127 at 3 (filed Feb. 20, 2015)
    (Google Feb. 20, 2015 Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001032150.

[^oreilly24]: *Supra* para. 354. The item also points to the ads to
    determine that ISPs holds themselves out to serve the public
    indifferently. *Supra* note 965. A smattering of general
    advertisements, however, is not a substitute for a reasoned
    analysis, nor does it establish that each and every ISP has made “a
    conscious decision” to hold itself out to serve the public
    indifferently. *Southwestern Bell Tel. Co. v. FCC*, 19 F.3d 1475,
    1481 (D.C. Cir. 1994). Moreover, the Commission itself has
    recognized that ISPs may “decide case-by-case basis whether to serve
    a particular end user, what connection speed(s) to offer, and at
    what price” and this “flexibility to customize service arrangements
    for a particular customer is the hallmark of private carriage, which
    is the antithesis of common carriage.” *Preserving the Open
    Internet*, GN Docket No. 09-191, WC Docket No. 07-52, Report and
    Order, 25 FCC Rcd 17905, 17951, ¶ 79 (2010) (*2010 Open Internet
    Order*), *aff’d in part*, *vacated and remanded in part sub nom.*
    *Verizon v. FCC*, 740 F.3d 623 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (citing *Sw. Bell
    Tel. Co. v. FCC*, 19 F.3d at 1481 (“If the carrier chooses its
    clients on an individual basis and determines in each particular
    case whether and on what terms to serve and there is no specific
    regulatory compulsion to serve all indifferently, the entity is a
    private carrier for that particular service and the Commission is
    not at liberty to subject the entity to regulation as a common
    carrier.”) (internal quotation marks omitted)). Indeed, “[t]aking
    advantage of this flexibility, AT&T, for example, reserves the right
    to refuse to provide its wireline broadband Internet access service
    to potential customers that it perceives as credit risks.” AT&T Feb.
    2, 2015 Common Carrier Ex Parte Letter at 7.

[^oreilly25]: *See* Verizon Feb. 19, 2015 Title II Ex Parte Letter at
    Appendix 1.

[^oreilly26]: *Id*. at 2.

[^oreilly27]: 47 U.S.C. § 153(20) (defining an “information service”).
    Accordingly, these functionalities do not merely “facilitate
    establishment of a basic transmission path”. *Implementation of the
    Non-Accounting Safeguards of Sections 271 and 272 of the
    Communications Act of 1934, as Amended*, CC Docket No. 96-149, First
    Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 11 FCC
    Rcd 21905, 21958, ¶ 107 (1996).

[^oreilly28]: *Supra* paras. 370, 372.

[^oreilly29]: Letter from Christopher Heimann, AT&T to Marlene H.
    Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28 & 10-127 at 7 (filed Feb. 2, 2015)
    (AT&T Feb. 2, 2015 Brand X Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001025378.

[^oreilly30]: *See id*. at 1-2, 6-8. *See also* AT&T Feb. 18 Fact Sheet
    Ex Parte Letter at 5 (“As long as the offering contains more than
    what the Commission has called a ‘pure transmission path’ —
    broadband Internet access is an information service.”) (internal
    citation omitted).

[^oreilly31]: *Appropriate Framework for Broadband Access to the
    Internet Over Wireline Facilities et al.*, CC Docket Nos. 02-33,
    01-337, 95-20, 98-10, WC Docket Nos. 04-242, 05-271, Report and
    Order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 20 FCC Rcd 14853, ¶ 15
    (2005) (*WBIAS Order*) (citing *Inquiry Concerning High-Speed Access
    to the Internet Over Cable and Other Facilities; Internet Over Cable
    Declaratory Ruling; Appropriate Regulatory Treatment for Broadband
    Access to the Internet Over Cable Facilities*, GN Docket No. 00-785,
    CS Docket No. 02-52, Declaratory Ruling and Notice of Proposed
    Rulemaking, 17 FCC Rcd 4798, ¶ 38 (2002), *aff’d*, *Nat’l Cable &
    Telecomms. Ass’n v. Brand X Internet Servs.*, 545 U.S. 967 (2005)).
    The *WBIAS Order* also observed, “This classification appears
    consistent with Congress’s understanding of the nature of Internet
    access services. Specifically, in section 230(f)(2) of the Act,
    Congress defined the term ‘interactive computer service’ to mean
    ‘any information service, . . . including specifically a service or
    system that provides access to the Internet….’” *WBIAS Order* at fn.
    41 (citing 47 U.S.C. § 230(f)(2)).

[^oreilly32]: *See* Google Feb. 20, 2015 Ex Parte Letter at 1*. See
    also, e.g*., Letter from William H. Johnson, Verizon to Marlene H.
    Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28 &10-127 at 1, 4-5 (filed Dec. 17,
    2014) (Verizon Dec. 17, 2014 Interconnection Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001010005; AT&T Feb. 2,
    2015 Common Carrier Ex Parte Letter at 7-8; Comcast Jan. 30, 2015 Ex
    Parte Letter at 2-6.

[^oreilly33]: AT&T Feb. 2, 2015 Common Carrier Ex Parte Letter at 7-8.

[^oreilly34]: Federal Trade Commission, *Broadband Connectivity
    Competition Policy* at 25 (June 2007),
    http://www.ftc.gov/sites/default/files/documents/reports/broadband-connectivity-competition-policy/v070000report.pdf.

[^oreilly35]: Comcast Jan. 30, 2015 Ex Parte Letter at 3.

[^oreilly36]: *See* AT&T Feb. 2, 2015 Common Carrier Ex Parte Letter at
    8 (“For example, AT&T’s peering policy expressly states that
    “[m]eeting the peering guidelines set forth herein is not a
    guarantee that a peering relationship with AT&T will be
    established,” that AT&T will “evaluate a number of business factors”
    before entering into a peering agreement, and “reserves the right
    not to enter into a peering agreement with an otherwise qualified
    applicant.”) (citing AT&T Global IP Network Settlement-Free Peering
    Policy, http://www.corp.att.com/peering).

[^oreilly37]: *Open Internet Order*, 25 FCC Rcd at 17951, ¶ 79.
    Moreover, this market is highly competitive. *See, e.g.*, AT&T Feb.
    2, 2015 Common Carrier Ex Parte at 9 (“At the same time that transit
    rates are declining rapidly, the volume of Internet traffic flowing
    over peering and transit arrangements has been growing at a
    remarkable pace. This combination of falling prices and increased
    output is exactly the opposite of what occurs where providers have
    market power, which is the ability ‘to raise price and restrict
    output.’ On the contrary, these facts lead inexorably to the
    conclusion that there is robust competition among competing networks
    of all types, fueled by massive continuing investments in fiber and
    IP platforms — investments that were made in reliance on the
    Commission’s long-standing, hands-off policy with respect to
    Internet access services and Internet interconnection
    arrangements.”) (internal citations omitted); Comcast Jan. 30, 2015
    Ex Parte Letter at 5 (“Thanks to fierce competition, unit prices for
    transit services have dropped over 99% in the past 15 years.”).

[^oreilly38]: *See, e.g*., *Verizon Communications Inc. and MCI, Inc.
    Applications for Approval of Transfer of Control*, WC Docket No.
    05-75, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 20 FCC Rcd 18433, ¶ 133 (2005)
    (“[I]nterconnection between Internet backbone providers has never
    been subject to direct government regulation.”); *Connect America
    Fund et al.*, WC Docket No. 10-90 et al., Report and Order and
    Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 26 FCC Rcd 17663, 17663, ¶
    1338 (2011) (*USF/ICC Transformation Order*), *aff’d sub nom. In re
    FCC 11-161*, 753F.3d 1015 (10th Cir. 2014).

[^oreilly39]: *Supra* para. 204.

[^oreilly40]: *See, e.g*., Verizon Dec. 17, 2014 Interconnection Ex
    Parte Letter at 1 (“Both the previous Open Internet rules and the
    Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in this proceeding focused on concerns
    relating to the management of traffic within a broadband provider’s
    local network and over the last-mile connection to a subscriber. By
    contrast, interconnection agreements inherently involve routing
    traffic between networks. Issues surrounding these agreements, which
    relate to the physical connections between networks, are “very
    distinct” from issues concerning the management of traffic over the
    last-mile….”) (internal citation omitted).

[^oreilly41]: *See, e.g*., Comcast Jan. 30, 2015 Ex Parte Letter at 6
    (“As an initial matter, the Open Internet NPRM gave no notice of any
    proposal to reclassify Internet traffic exchange as a Title II
    service. Although the NPRM raised the prospect that the FCC could
    depart from its historical approach of excluding interconnection
    issues from open Internet rules – asking whether it ‘should expand
    the scope of the open Internet rules to cover issues related to
    traffic exchange’ – it nowhere suggested that the Commission might
    reclassify ISPs’ interconnection-related services to achieve that
    end.”). As a backstop, the item notes in passing that BIAS provider
    practices with respect to such interconnection are “for and in
    connection with” the BIAS service. This last second addition based
    on a last minute ex parte filing cannot salvage this effort because
    there is no notice for this theory either.

[^oreilly42]: *See id.* at 1-3 (“These [traffic exchange] arrangements
    are distinct from the issues that are the subject of the
    Commission’s open Internet rules, such as the ability of end-users
    to access particular content or the priority with which content
    might be delivered to end-users over an ISP’s last-mile network.”).
    *See also, e.g*., Verizon Dec. 17, 2014 Interconnection Ex Parte at
    1 (“[I]nterconnection agreements involve issues that are distinct
    from net neutrality, which has always focused on broadband Internet
    access providers’ handling of traffic over the last-mile connection
    to consumers.”).

[^oreilly43]: Comcast Jan. 30, 2015 Ex Parte Letter at 2-3
    (“Traffic-exchange arrangements concern the transport of Internet
    traffic across the increasingly complex and dynamic backbone
    architecture of the Internet, and are negotiated based on the
    amounts of traffic – not the type, content, or source of traffic –
    being delivered to each party’s network by the other.”).

[^oreilly44]: 47 U.S.C. § 332. In 1993, Congress codified section 332(c)
    differentiating between commercial and private mobile services.
    *Compare* 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(1) *with id.* § 332(c)(1); *see also*
    *id*. § 332(d) (providing definitions); Omnibus Budget
    Reconciliation Act of 1993, Pub. L. No. 103-66, 107 Stat. 312. Under
    the law, mobile broadband has been treated as a “private mobile
    service” as opposed to a “commercial mobile service or the
    functional equivalent of a commercial mobile service.” A “commercial
    mobile service” interconnects with the public switched telephone
    network; whereas, a “private mobile service” does not. Because
    mobile broadband is not interconnected and, therefore, a “commercial
    mobile service,” Section 332 of the Communications Act prevents the
    Commission from regulating mobile broadband under Title II. Instead,
    mobile broadband is a “private mobile service” free from common
    carrier regulation. *See, e.g.,* *Implementation of Sections 3(n)
    and 332 of the Communications Act, Regulatory Treatment of Mobile
    Services*, 9 FCC Rcd 1411, 1434 ¶ 54 (1994); *Appropriate Regulatory
    Treatment for Broadband Access to the Internet over Wireless
    Networks*, Declaratory Ruling, 22 FCC Rcd 5901, 5915–21 ¶¶ 37–56
    (2007); *Cellco Partnership v. FCC*, 700 F.3d 534, 538 (D.C. Cir.
    2012); *Verizon v. FCC*, 740 F.3d at 650; *see also* Testimony of
    Robert M. McDowell, Partner, Wiley Rein LLP & Senior Fellow, Hudson
    Institute, before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science &
    Transportation, at 14-15,
    http://www.commerce.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File\_id=14755dd8-95c7-45e0-a7b9-bfb33f222f45.

[^oreilly45]: *See, e.g., Implementation of Section 6002(b) of the
    Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, Annual Report and
    Analysis of Competitive Market Conditions With Respect to Mobile
    Wireless, Including Commercial Mobile Services*, WT Docket No.
    13-135, Seventeenth Report, 29 FCC Rcd 15311, 15336 Chart III.2.A
    (WTB 2014) (stating that approximately 99 percent of consumers have
    a choice of two or more competitors and more than 82 percent of
    Americans today have a choice of four or more mobile providers).

[^oreilly46]: Now more than any time in history, wireless consumers have
    the freedom to take advantage of myriad incentives to switch
    providers, whether through early termination fee buyouts, unlocking,
    or one of various options to buy or finance the latest mobile
    devices. *See, e.g.,* Letter from Scott K. Bergmann, CTIA – The
    Wireless Association, to Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos.
    14-28 & 10-127, at 3-5 (Feb. 10, 2015) (CTIA Feb. 10, 2015 Ex Parte
    Letter).

[^oreilly47]: And, to remain competitive, carriers will continue to
    deploy new technologies, upgrade current networks, improve service
    offerings, and evolve to consistently meet or exceed consumer
    expectations. *See, e.g.,* Testimony of Meredith Attwell Baker,
    President and CEO, CTIA – The Wireless Association, before the House
    Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, at
    5 (Jan. 21, 2015),
    http://docs.house.gov/meetings/IF/IF16/20150121/102832/HHRG-114-IF16-Wstate-BakerM-20150121-U1.pdf.

[^oreilly48]: *See, e.g.,* *id*. at 4 (stating that a single strand of
    fiber can carry more traffic than the entirety of spectrum allocated
    for commercial wireless use); Letter from Scott Bergman, CTIA – The
    Wireless Association, to Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos.
    14-28 & 10-127 (Oct. 6, 2014).

[^oreilly49]: By doing so, my colleagues in the majority bring an end to
    the regulatory approach established by Congress, implemented by the
    Commission and relied upon by the wireless sector. *See* CTIA Feb.
    10, 2015 Ex Parte Letter at 5-10.

[^oreilly50]: *See, e.g.,* Letter from Gary L. Phillips, AT&T, to
    Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, at 3 (Feb. 2, 2015) (AT&T Feb. 2, 2015 Ex
    Parte Letter); CTIA Feb. 10, 2015 Ex Parte Letter at 13-14; CTIA
    Dec. 22, 2014 White Paper at 6; Letter from William H. Johnson,
    Verizon, to Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, at 5-6 (Verizon Dec. 24, 2014 Ex
    Parte Letter).

[^oreilly51]: *See, e.g.,* AT&T Jan. 8, 2015 Ex Parte Letter; AT&T Feb.
    2, 2015 Ex Parte Letter; CTIA Feb. 10, 2015 Ex Parte Letter at
    14-16; CTIA Dec. 22, 2014 White Paper at 2-19; Verizon Dec. 24, 2014
    Ex Parte Letter.

[^oreilly52]: *Supra* para. 446 (emphasis added).

[^oreilly53]: *Supra* para. 499.

[^oreilly54]: *Supra* para. 509.

[^oreilly55]: *Supra* para. 510.

[^oreilly56]: *Supra* para. 513 (internal citation omitted).

[^oreilly57]: *Supra* para. 514.

[^oreilly58]: *See, e.g.*, NCTA Comments 27-29; TWC Comments 14-16;
    Letter from William L. Kovacks, Chamber of Commerce to Marlene H.
    Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28 & 10-127, at 3, n.13 (filed July
    15, 2014); ITIF Comments at 9.

[^oreilly59]: *Supra* para. 292 (“In light of our discretion in
    interpreting and applying sections 201 and 202 and insofar as
    section 706(a) is ‘a ‘fail-safe’ that ‘ensures’ the Commission’s
    ability to promote advanced services,’ we decline to interpret
    section 202(a) as preventing the Commission from exercising its
    authority under sections 201(b) and 706 to ban paid prioritization
    practices that harm Internet openness and deployment.”) (internal
    citation omitted).

[^oreilly60]: Verizon Feb, 19, 2015 Title II Ex Parte Letter at 7.

[^oreilly61]: *Util. Air Reg. Grp. v. EPA*, 134 S. Ct. 2427, 2444, 2445
    (2014).

[^oreilly62]: *Ragsdale v Wolverine World Wide, Inc*., 535 U.S. 81, 91
    (2002) (internal quotation marks omitted).

[^oreilly63]: *Verizon v. FCC,* 740 F.3d at 662 (Silberman, J.,
    concurring in part and dissenting in part).

[^oreilly64]: Letter from Earl W. Comstock, Counsel to Full Service
    Network and TruConnect, to Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket Nos.
    14-28 & 10-127 at 4 (filed Feb. 20, 2015),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001031994.

[^oreilly65]: *Astoria Federal Savings & Loan Ass’n v. Solimino*, 501
    U.S. 104, 112 (1991).

[^oreilly66]: *Verizon and AT&T Inc. v. FCC*, 770 F.3d 961, 964 (D.C.
    Cir. 2014).

[^oreilly67]: 47 U.S.C. § 161.

[^oreilly68]: 47 U.S.C. § 230(b)(2).

[^oreilly69]: 47 U.S.C. § 230(f)(2).

[^oreilly70]: Letter from Matthew A. Brill, NCTA to Marlene H. Dortch,
    FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28 & 10-127 at 5 (filed Feb. 20, 2015) (NCTA
    Feb. 20, 2015 Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001031778 (“Private
    suits and damages awards have never been necessary to protect
    broadband consumers in the past, and leaving these two provisions in
    place would be immensely destabilizing to the broadband
    industry.…The Commission is all too familiar with the growing trend
    of class action lawsuits that aim to capitalize on ambiguities in
    the Commission’s rulings—most notably in the context of the
    Telephone Consumer Protection Act (‘TCPA’). A regime that exposes
    the broadband industry to similar threats of abusive litigation
    would be anything but ‘light touch,’ and could be particularly
    devastating for smaller ISPs, many of which cannot afford the cost
    of litigating or settling class action lawsuits.”) (internal
    citation omitted).

[^oreilly71]: Electronic Frontier Foundation, *Dear FCC: Rethink The
    Vague “General Conduct” Rule* (Feb. 24, 2015),
    https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/02/dear-fcc-rethink-those-vague-general-conduct-rules.

[^oreilly72]: *FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc*., 132 S.Ct. 2307,
    2317 (2012) (citing *Connally v. General Constr. Co*., 269 U.S. 385,
    391 (1926)).

[^oreilly73]: *TerraCom, Inc. and YourTel America, Inc.*, Apparent
    Liability for Forfeiture, File No.: EB-TCD-13-00009175, 29 FCC Rcd
    13325 (2014),
    https://apps.fcc.gov/edocs\_public/attachmatch/FCC-14-173A1\_Rcd.pdf.
    The NAL also wrongly suggested that section 201(b) covers
    cybersecurity.

[^oreilly74]: *Id*. at 13351 (dissenting Statement of Commissioner
    Michael O’Rielly),
    https://apps.fcc.gov/edocs\_public/attachmatch/FCC-14-173A5.pdf.

[^oreilly75]: Letter from Matthew A. Brill, Counsel to National Cable &
    Telecommunications Association, to Marlene H. Dortch, FCC, GN Docket
    Nos. 14-28, 10-127 at 2 (Feb.11, 2015) (NCTA Feb. 11, 2015 Ex Parte
    Letter), http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001028642.

[^oreilly76]: Letter from Michael R. Romano, NTCA to Marlene H. Dortch,
    FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28 &10-127, at 1 (filed Feb. 19, 2015) (NTCA
    Feb. 19, 2015 Ex Parte Letter),
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001031424.
