# Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Ajit Pai

Re: *Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet*, GN Docket No. 14-28.

Americans love the free and open Internet. We relish our freedom to
speak, to post, to rally, to learn, to listen, to watch, and to connect
online. The Internet has become a powerful force for freedom, both at
home and abroad. So it is sad to witness the FCC’s unprecedented attempt
to replace that freedom with government control.

It shouldn’t be this way. For twenty years, there’s been a bipartisan
consensus in favor of a free and open Internet. A Republican Congress
and a Democratic President enshrined in the Telecommunications Act of
1996 the principle that the Internet should be a “vibrant and
competitive free market . . . unfettered by Federal or State
regulation.”[^pai1] And dating back to the Clinton Administration, every
FCC Chairman—Republican and Democrat—has let the Internet grow free from
utility-style regulation. The result? The Internet has been an amazing
success story, changing our lives and the world in ways that would have
been unimaginable when the 1996 Act was passed.

But today, the FCC abandons those policies. It reclassifies broadband
Internet access service as a Title II telecommunications service. It
seizes unilateral authority to regulate Internet conduct, to direct
where Internet service providers put their investments, and to determine
what service plans will be available to the American public. This is not
only a radical departure from the bipartisan, market-oriented policies
that have served us so well for the last two decades. It is also an
about-face from the proposals the FCC made just last May.

So why is the FCC changing course? Why is the FCC turning its back on
Internet freedom? Is it because we now have evidence that the Internet
is not open? No. Is it because we have discovered some problem with our
prior interpretation of the law? No. We are flip-flopping for one reason
and one reason alone. President Obama told us to do so.

On November 10, President Obama asked the FCC to implement his plan for
regulating the Internet, one that favors government regulation over
marketplace competition.[^pai2] As has been widely reported in the
press, the FCC has been scrambling ever since to figure out a way to do
just that.

The courts will ultimately decide this *Order*’s fate. And I doubt they
will countenance this unlawful power grab. Litigants are already
lawyering up to seek judicial review of these new rules. Given the
*Order*’s many glaring legal flaws, they will have plenty of fodder.

But if this *Order* manages to survive judicial review, these will be
the consequences: higher broadband prices, slower speeds, less broadband
deployment, less innovation, and fewer options for American consumers.
To paraphrase Ronald Reagan, President Obama’s plan to regulate the
Internet isn’t the solution to a problem. His plan is the problem.

In short, because this *Order* imposes intrusive government regulations
that won’t work to solve a problem that doesn’t exist using legal
authority the FCC doesn’t have, I dissent.

## I.

The Commission’s decision to adopt President Obama’s plan marks a
monumental shift toward government control of the Internet. It gives the
FCC the power to micromanage virtually every aspect of how the Internet
works. It’s an overreach that will let a Washington bureaucracy, and not
the American people, decide the future of the online world.

One facet of that control is rate regulation. For the first time, the
FCC will regulate the rates that Internet service providers may charge
and will set a price of zero for certain commercial agreements.[^pai3]
And the *Order* goes out of its way to reject calls to forbear from
section 201’s authorization of rate regulation,[^pai4] thus making clear
that the FCC will have the authority to determine the appropriate rates
and charges for service.[^pai5] The *Order* also expressly invites
parties to file such complaints with the Commission.[^pai6] A government
agency deciding whether a rate is lawful is the very definition of rate
regulation.

As a consequence, if the FCC decides that it does not like how broadband
is being priced, Internet service providers may soon face admonishments,
citations,[^pai7] notices of violation,[^pai8] notices of apparent
liability,[^pai9] monetary forfeitures and refunds,[^pai10] cease and
desist orders,[^pai11] revocations,[^pai12] and even referrals for
criminal prosecution.[^pai13] The only limit on the FCC’s discretion to
regulate rates is its own determination of whether rates are “just and
reasonable,” which isn’t much of a restriction at all.

Although the *Order* plainly regulates rates, the plan takes pains to
claim that it is not imposing further “*ex ante* rate
regulation.”[^pai14] Of course, that concedes that the new regulatory
regime will involve *ex post* rate regulation. But even the agency’s
suggestion that it today “cannot . . . envision” *ex ante* rate
regulations “in this context” says nothing of what a future
Commission—perhaps this very Commission in a few months or years—could
envision.[^pai15] Indeed, the FCC grants forbearance against *ex ante*
rate regulation but then turns around and says there’s no apparent
“incremental benefit” to doing so since the Commission could just
reverse that decision in any future rulemaking.[^pai16]

Indeed, it’s actually quite easy to envision this same Commission
deciding to discard the predictive judgment that *ex ante* rate
regulation is unnecessary. After all, the Commission in this very
*Order* and without explanation junks the agency’s 2002 predictive
judgment that intermodal broadband competition would develop.[^pai17]
The short shrift the *Order* gives to our past bodes poorly for our
future—for why should anyone trust these latest promises at all?

Just as pernicious is the FCC’s new “Internet conduct” standard, a
standard that gives the FCC a roving mandate to review business models
and upend pricing plans that benefit consumers.[^pai18] Usage-based
pricing plans and sponsored data plans are the current targets. So if a
company doesn’t want to offer an expensive, unlimited data plan, it
could find itself in the FCC’s cross hairs.[^pai19]

Consider that activists promoting this rule had previously targeted
neither AT&T nor Verizon with their first net-neutrality complaint but
MetroPCS—an upstart competitor with a single-digit market share and not
an ounce of market power. Its crime? Unlimited YouTube. MetroPCS offered
a \$40-per-month plan with unlimited talk, text, Web browsing and
YouTube streaming. The company’s strategy was to entice customers to
switch from the four national carriers or to upgrade to its newly built
4G Long Term Evolution network. Whatever the benefits of MetroPCS’s
approach, activists have said “there can be no compromise.”[^pai20]

Or take T-Mobile’s Music Freedom program, which the Internet conduct
rule puts on the chopping block. The “Un-carrier” lets consumers stream
as much online music as they want without charging it against their
monthly data allowance. Consumers love it, judging by T-Mobile’s rapid
subscriber growth. Yet Music Freedom too stands on the brink of a
ban—with the FCC “mindful of the concerns raised in the record that
sponsored data plans have the potential to distort competition by
allowing service providers to pick and choose among content and
application providers to feature on different service plans.”[^pai21]

Affordable, prepaid plans are now also suspect. These plans have enabled
millions of low-income households to have mobile service. And yet the
*Order* plays up the “concern that such practices can potentially be
used by broadband providers to disadvantage over-the-top
providers.”[^pai22] In other words, these plans aren’t the
all-you-can-eat plans endorsed by the FCC, and so they, too, may violate
the Internet conduct standard.

Our standard should be simple: If you like your current service plan,
you should be able to keep your current service plan. The FCC shouldn’t
take it away from you. Indeed, economists have long understood
innovative business models like these are good for consumers because
they give them more choices and lower prices. To apply outmoded economic
thinking to the Internet marketplace would just hurt consumers,
especially the middle-class and low-income Americans who are the biggest
beneficiaries of these plans.

In all, the FCC will have almost unfettered discretion to decide what
business practices clear the bureaucratic bar, so these won’t be the
last business models targeted by the agency. And though the FCC spends
several paragraphs describing seven vaguely worded factors that it will
consider when applying the Internet conduct standard—end-user control;
competitive effects; consumer protection; effect on innovation,
investment, or broadband deployment; free expression; application
agnostic; and standard practices[^pai23]—these factors lead to more
questions than they answer. As the Electronic Frontier Foundation wrote
just this week: This open-ended rule will be “anything but clear” and
“suggests that the FCC believes it has broad authority to pursue any
number of practices.” And “multi-factor test gives the FCC an awful lot
of discretion, potentially giving an unfair advantage to parties with
insider influence.” Or as they put it more bluntly, this rule is “hardly
the narrow, light-touch approach we need to protect the open
Internet.”[^pai24] Even FCC leadership conceded that, with respect to
the sorts of activities the Internet conduct standard could regulate,
“we don’t really know” and that “we don’t know where things go next,”
other than that the “FCC will sit there as a referee and be able to
throw the flag.”[^pai25]

And because this list is “non-exhaustive,” with “other considerations
relevant to determining whether a particular practice violates” the
standard,[^pai26] Internet service providers are left to guess. Will the
rate of return on investment be a factor? How about an operator’s
margins? What if the Internet service provider separately offers an
interconnected VoIP service?

Net neutrality proponents are already bragging that it will turn the FCC
into the “Department of the Internet”[^pai27]—and it’s no wonder. The
FCC’s newfound control extends to the design of the Internet itself,
from the last mile through the backbone. Section 201(a) of the
Communications Act gives the FCC authority to order “physical
connections” and “through routes,”[^pai28] meaning the FCC can decide
where the Internet should be built and how it should be interconnected.
And with the broad Internet conduct standard, decisions about network
architecture and design will no longer be in the hands of engineers but
bureaucrats and lawyers.

So if one Internet service provider wants to follow in the footsteps of
Google Fiber and enter the market incrementally, the FCC may say no. If
another wants to upgrade the bandwidth of its routers at the cost of
some latency, the FCC may block it. Every decision to invest in ports
for interconnection may be second-guessed; every use of priority coding
to enable latency-sensitive applications like Voice over LTE may be
reviewed with a microscope. How will this all be resolved? No one knows.
81-year-old laws like this don’t self-execute, and even in 317 pages,
there’s not enough room for the FCC to describe how it would decide
whether this or that broadband business practice is just and reasonable.
So businesses will have to decide for themselves—with newly-necessary
counsel from high-priced attorneys and accountants—whether to take a
risk.

That’s just from some of the rules that the FCC is deciding to apply
now. Yet *more* rules are on the horizon. The Commission commits “to
commence in the near term a separate proceeding to revisit the data
roaming obligations of [mobile broadband] providers in light of our
reclassification decisions” and to determine whether full-fledged
common-carriage wholesale obligations should apply.[^pai29] And it
promises a new rulemaking to apply section 222’s customer-proprietary
network information provisions to Internet service providers.[^pai30]
Still more are sure to come.

And then there is the temporary forbearance. Did I forget to mention
that? Although the *Order* crows that its forbearance from Title II’s
provisions and rules yields a “‘light-touch’ regulatory
framework,”[^pai31] in reality it isn’t light at all, coming as it does
with the provisos, limitations, and qualifications that the public has
come to expect from Washington, DC. The plan is quite clear about the
limited duration of its forbearance decisions, stating that the FCC will
revisit them in the future and proceed in an incremental manner with
respect to additional regulation.[^pai32] In discussing additional rate
regulation, tariffs, last-mile unbundling, burdensome administrative
filing requirements, accounting standards, and entry and exit
regulation, the plan repeatedly states that it is only forbearing “at
this time.”[^pai33] For others, the FCC will not impose rules “for
now.”[^pai34]

To be sure, with respect to some rules, the agency says that it “cannot
envision” going further.[^pai35] But as the history of this proceeding
makes clear, temporal statements like these don’t tend to last very
long. Ask people who have followed this proceeding closely, and they
could tell you that as late as November 2014, reclassification was not
under serious consideration by the FCC “at this time,” Title II was not
going to be imposed “for now,” and the agency “could not envision” going
further than either a 706-based approach or the Mozilla-inspired hybrid
proposal. In other words, expect the forbearance to fade and the
regulations to ratchet up as time marches on.

### A.

Consumers will be worse off under President Obama’s plan to regulate the
Internet. Consumers should expect their bills to go up, and they should
expect that broadband will be slower going forward than it otherwise
would have been. This isn’t what anyone was promised, and no one likes
paying more for less.

*1. New Broadband Taxes*.—One avenue for higher bills is the new taxes
and fees that will be applied to broadband. Here’s the background. If
you look at your phone bill, you’ll see a “Universal Service Fee,” or
something like it. These fees (what most Americans would call taxes) are
paid by Americans on their telephone service and funnel about \$9
billion each year through the FCC—all outside the congressional
appropriations process. Consumers haven’t had to pay these taxes on
their broadband bills because broadband Internet access service has
never before been a Title II service.

But now it is. And so the *Order* explicitly opens the door to billions
of dollars in new taxes on broadband. As the *Order* frankly
acknowledges, Title II “authorizes the Commission to impose universal
service contributions requirements on telecommunications carriers—and,
indeed, goes even further to require ‘[e]very telecommunications carrier
that provides interstate telecommunications services’ to
contribute.”[^pai36] And so the FCC now has a statutory obligation to
make sure that all Internet service providers (and in the end, their
customers) contribute to the Universal Service Fund.

That’s why the *Order* repeatedly states that it is only deferring a
decision on new broadband taxes—not prohibiting them.[^pai37] This is
fig-leaf forbearance, a reprieve only “insofar as [the provisions] would
immediately require new universal service contributions for broadband
Internet access services sold to end users but not insofar as they
authorize the Commission to require such contributions in a rulemaking
in the future.”[^pai38]

That future is swiftly approaching; it may be just a few months. The
*Order* notes that the FCC has referred the question of assessing state
and federal taxes on broadband to the Federal-State Joint Board on
Universal Service and has “requested a recommended decision by April 7,
2015,” right before Tax Day—although a “a short extension of that
deadline” may be in order.[^pai39] It’s no surprise that many have
interpreted this referral as a question of *how* to tax broadband, not
*whether* to do so, and states have already begun discussions on how
they will spend the extra money.[^pai40]

And the agency’s preference is clear. The *Order* argues that taxing
broadband “potentially could spread the base of contributions” and could
add “to the stability of the universal service fund.”[^pai41] For those
not familiar with this Beltway argot, let me translate: “Extending these
taxes to broadband would make it easier to spend more without public
oversight.” But using plain English hardly makes for a compelling public
message.

We’ve seen this game played before. During reform of the E-Rate program
in July 2014, the FCC secretly told lobbyists that it would raise USF
taxes after the election to pay for the promises it was making.[^pai42]
Sure enough, in December 2014, the agency did just that—increasing
E-Rate spending (and with it telephone taxes) by \$1.5 billion per
year.[^pai43]

The federal government is sure to tap this new revenue stream soon to
spend more of consumers’ hard-earned dollars. Indeed, it’s been publicly
reported that the FCC is itching to use the Universal Service Fund to
extend the Lifeline program to broadband. That won’t come cheap. In
order to provide discounted broadband service to millions of Americans,
the FCC will have to find the money somewhere. With this *Order*, that
somewhere is your wallet. So when it comes to broadband, read my lips:
More new taxes are coming. It’s just a matter of when.[^pai44]

The great irony of all of this? The broadband tax increase enabled by
reclassification is going to deter broadband adoption, especially among
the low-income Americans for whom broadband (especially mobile
broadband) is increasingly important for professional success,
education, and more.[^pai45] The iron law of microeconomics still holds:
The more you tax something, the less you get of it. In this case, the
FCC’s decision today will mean fewer digital opportunities for
hard-working Americans tomorrow.

*2. Slower Broadband*.—These Internet regulations will work another
serious harm on consumers. Their broadband speeds will be slower than
they would have been without these regulations.

The record is replete with evidence that Title II regulations will slow
investment and innovation in broadband networks.[^pai46] Remember:
Broadband networks don’t have to be built. Capital doesn’t have to be
invested here. Risks don’t have to be taken. The more difficult the FCC
makes the business case for deployment—and micromanaging everything from
interconnection to service plans makes it difficult indeed—the less
likely it is that broadband providers big and small will connect
Americans with digital opportunities. And neither big nor small
providers will bring rural and poor Americans online if it’s
economically irrational for them to do so. Utility-style regulation of
the kind the FCC adopts here thus will simply broaden the digital
divide.

The Old World offers a cautionary tale here. Compare the broadband
market in the United States to that in Europe, where broadband is
generally regulated as a public utility. Data show that 82% of
Americans, and 48% of rural Americans, have access to 25 Mbps broadband
speeds. In Europe, those figures are only 54% and 12%, respectively.
Similarly, wireline broadband providers in the United States are
investing more than twice as much as their European counterparts (\$562
per household versus \$244). The data for wireless broadband providers
shows the same pattern (\$110 per person versus \$55). In the United
States, broadband providers deploy fiber to the premises about twice as
often (23% versus 12%). And with respect to mobile broadband, 30% of
subscribers in the United States have the fastest technology in wide
deployment, 4G LTE, but in Europe that figure is only 4%. Moreover, in
the United States, average mobile speeds are about 30% faster than they
are in Western Europe.[^pai47]

It’s no wonder that many Europeans are perplexed by what is taking place
at the FCC. Just days before the FCC adopted this *Order*, for example,
the Secretary General of the European People’s Party, the largest party
in the European Parliament, observed that the FCC, “at the behest of . .
. [P]resident [Obama] himself,”, was about to impose the type of
“[r]egulation which . . . has led Europe to fall behind the US in levels
of investment.”[^pai48]

But the *Order* doesn’t just adopt utility-style regulation. It goes
even further and injects tremendous uncertainty into the market. At
least with easy-to-understand, bright-line rules, a business can plan.
But a thick regulatory haze—rules that are unclear with the overhang of
more rules to come—should make any rational businesses hold back on
investment and start returning any free cash back to their shareholders.

Ironically enough, the Commission itself acknowledges at one point that
“vague or unclear regulatory requirements could stymie rather than
encourage innovation.”[^pai49] But those are precisely the kind of
requirements the FCC is adopting. Its predictive judgment that
uncertainty is “likely to be short term and will dissipate over time as
the marketplace internalizes our Title II approach”[^pai50] prioritizes
faith above experience.

Making it all worse is the fact that the FCC cannot promise anything
about how these new rules will be enforced because it is not the only
adjudicator. After this decision, “[a]ny person claiming to be damaged
by any” Internet service provider “may bring suit for the recovery of
the damages” in any federal district court.[^pai51] Although the *Order*
hesitates to admit it,[^pai52] the FCC has now condoned litigation—from
individual claims about the justness and reasonableness of ISP pricing
to sprawling class actions for violations of the new Internet conduct
rule—as an appropriate means of regulating the Internet economy. Is
there any American who believes that administrative wrangling at the FCC
and endless litigation in the federal courts will do anything for the
American consumer?

The not-so-dirty secret, of course, is that this will be a boon for
trial lawyers. And the *Order*’s decisions will make their lives even
easier. Every edge provider, and thus every person online, is now swept
up by FCC’s new and rather peculiar view of what constitutes broadband
Internet access service. This means that a wayward plaintiff’s attorney
could sue every single Internet service provider in the country from his
hometown courtroom. I’m sure such litigation will benefit our nation’s
lawyers, but the American people—not so much.

And these are just the intended results of reclassification!

There are unintended consequences as well. *For one*, the rate that
broadband providers—ranging from small-town cable operators to new
entrants like Google—pay to deploy broadband will go up by an estimated
\$150–200 million per year.[^pai53] And that’s because the
Communications Act establishes a higher rate for telecommunications
carriers to pay for access to poles, conduits, and rights of way than
other Internet service providers.

While it may not be the “Commission’s intent to see any increase in the
rates for pole attachments,”[^pai54] the agency has no power to stop it.
The actual utilities that own these poles get to charge what they want
up to the statutory maximum, and the FCC has just raised that maximum.
Or to use the FCC’s preferred parlance, utilities will have the
“incentive and ability” to exploit this new maximum rate for Internet
service providers. The end result: Reclassification would subject
Internet service providers “to significantly higher attachment rates,
inadvertently threatening the very broadband deployment the Commission
seeks to facilitate.”[^pai55]

*For another*, reclassification will expose many small companies to
higher state and local taxes. Tax rates on telecommunications companies
are often significantly higher than those imposed on general businesses,
and so reclassification threatens Internet service providers with
property tax hikes, new transaction-based taxes and fees, and greater
income, franchising, and gross receipts taxes.[^pai56] And these tax
hikes won’t necessarily be *de minimis*. In the District of Columbia,
for instance, companies will face an instant 11% increase in taxes on
their *gross receipts*.[^pai57] That big bite will leave a welt on
Washington consumers’ wallets.

The *Order* trots out Congress’s recent (temporary) extension of the
Internet Tax Freedom Act to claim that states and localities cannot
impose new “[t]axes on Internet access.”[^pai58] And that’s true (and a
victory for consumers). But broadband taxes like those imposed by the
*Order* have evaded the scope of the Internet Tax Freedom Act so
far—because they are “fees,” not “taxes,” and because they’re not
exclusively about “Internet access” but more generally applied.[^pai59]
And since Congress has not entrusted the Commission with interpreting
the Internet Tax Freedom Act, even our most fervent pronouncements for
it to be broader will not make it so.

All of these new fees and costs add up. One estimate puts the total at
\$11 billion a year.[^pai60] And every dollar spent on fees and new
costs like lawyers and accountants has to come from somewhere: either
the pockets of the American consumer or projects to deploy faster
broadband. And so these higher costs will lead to slower speeds and
higher prices—in short, less value—for the American consumer.

### B.

So do American consumers want slower speeds at higher prices? I don’t
think so.

That’s certainly not what I heard when I hosted the Texas Forum on
Internet Regulation in College Station, the FCC’s *only* field hearing
on net neutrality where audience members were allowed to speak. There, I
heard from Internet innovators, from students, from everyday people who
wanted something else from the FCC—something that I thought had a
familiar ring to it. The consumers I spoke with wanted competition,
competition, competition.

And yet, literally nothing in this *Order* will promote competition
among Internet service providers. To the contrary, reclassifying
broadband, applying the bulk of Title II rules, and half-heartedly
forbearing from the rest “for now” will drive smaller competitors out of
business and leave the rest in regulatory vassalage. Monopoly rules
designed for the monopoly era will inevitably move us in the direction
of a monopoly. President Obama’s plan to regulate the Internet is
nothing more than a Kingsbury Commitment for the digital age.[^pai61] If
you liked the Ma Bell monopoly in the 20^th^ century, you’ll love Pa
Broadband in the 21^st^.

Today there are thousands of smaller Internet service providers—wireless
Internet service providers (WISPs), small-town cable operators,
municipal broadband providers, electric cooperatives, and others—that
don’t have the means or the margins to withstand a regulatory onslaught.
Imposing on competitive broadband companies the rules designed to
constrain Cornelius Vanderbilt’s railroad empire or the
continent-spanning Bell telephone monopoly will do nothing but raise the
costs of doing business. Smaller, rural competitors will be
disproportionately affected, and the FCC’s decision will diminish
competition—the best guarantor of consumer welfare.

This isn’t just my view. The President’s own Small Business
Administration—apparently acting independently—admonished the FCC that
its proposed rules would unduly burden small businesses. The SBA urged
the FCC to “address[] the concerns raised by small businesses in
comments” and “exercise appropriate caution in tailoring its final rules
to mitigate any anti-competitive pressure on small broadband providers
as well.”[^pai62] Following the President’s lead, the FCC ignores this
admonition by applying heavy-handed Title II regulations to each and
every small broadband provider as if it were an industrial giant. As a
result, small providers will be squeezed—perhaps out of business
altogether. If they go dark, consumers they serve (including my parents,
who are WISP subscribers in rural Kansas) will be thrown offline.

Unsurprisingly, small Internet service providers are worried. I heard
this for myself at the Texas Forum on Internet Regulation. One of the
panelists, Joe Portman, runs Alamo Broadband, a WISP that serves 700
people across 500 square miles south of San Antonio. As he put it, his
customers “had very limited choices for internet service before we came
along. The big names, the telcos and cable companies, when it comes to
rural areas such as the areas we serve don’t see the value and won’t
invest the capital (at least if it’s their money) to build
infrastructure and bring service to the people that live there. We, and
thousands others like us, have found a way to do it.”[^pai63]

What does Joe think of Title II? He thinks it’s “pretty much a terrible
idea.”[^pai64] His staff “is pretty busy just dealing with the loads we
already carry. More staff to cover regulations means less funds to run
the network and provide the very service our customers depend on.”
Bottom line? Title II will just impede broadband deployment—especially
from WISPs like his.

Other WISPs feel the same way. Take Galen Manners, in my hometown of
Parsons, Kansas. He runs Wave Wireless, a WISP that delivers Internet
access to residents of rural Labette County[^pai65]—including my
parents. I can tell you from personal knowledge that folks back home
have few options. Google Fiber isn’t building there; other major ISPs
wouldn’t bother either.

Manners said that Wave Wireless “will feel the sting of the [Title II]
regulations,” which “will complicate and increase the cost of providing
service. The result is the consumer will pay more for [his] service.”
Manners hopes he can weather the regulatory storm, unlike WISPs that he
thinks may go out of business. But he summed up his situation in a way
that applies to companies and customers nationwide: “It’s not a good
thing for business. It’s not a good thing for the consumer. . . . It’s
going to be a game-changer.”[^pai66]

Just last week, 142 WISPs joined the chorus. Whether it’s Aerux.com in
Castle Rock, Colorado, or Aristotle.Net in Little Rock, Arkansas,
whether it’s STE Wireless in Utica, Nebraska, or Cyber Broadcasting in
Coal City, Illinois, these WISPs have deployed wireless broadband to
customers who often have no alternatives. They rely heavily on
unlicensed spectrum, take no federal subsidies, and often run on a
shoestring budget with just a few people to run the business, install
equipment, and handle service calls. They have no incentive and no
ability to take on commercial giants like Netflix. And they say the
FCC’s new “regulatory intrusion into our businesses . . . would likely
force us to raise prices, delay deployment expansion, or both.”[^pai67]

Or consider the views of 24 of the country’s smallest Internet service
providers, each with fewer than 1,000 residential broadband customers.
The largest, FamilyView Cablevision, has just 900 customers in
Pendleton, South Carolina. The smallest, Main Street Broadband, has just
4 residential customers in Cannon Falls, Minnesota. They wrote us that
Title II “will badly strain our limited resources” because these
Internet service providers “have no in-house attorneys and no budget
line items for outside counsel” and the “rules of the road . . . could
change anytime the issues an advisory, rules on a complaint, or adopts
new rules. To subject small and medium-sized ISPs to such a regime, no
less the very smallest of ISPs, is simply unreasonable.”[^pai68]

Or how about the 43 municipal broadband providers that flatly told the
FCC that “there is no basis for the Commission to reclassify our
Internet service for the purpose of imposing any Title II common carrier
obligations.”[^pai69] They continued, “Title II regulation will
undermine the business model that supports our network, raises our costs
and hinders our ability to further deploy broadband.”[^pai70] Their
closing is a stinging rebuke to those who argue that Title II is
harmless to those providers who don’t harm consumers:

> [W]e ask that you not fall prey to the facile argument that if smaller
> ISPs are not blocking, throttling, or discriminating amongst Internet
> traffic on their networks today, they have nothing to fear because
> they will experience no harm under Title II regulation. The economic
> harm will flow not from following net neutrality principles, which we
> do today because we think it is beneficial to all, but from the
> collateral effects of a change in regulatory status that will trigger
> consequences beyond the Commission’s control and risk serious harm to
> our ability to fund and deploy broadband without bringing any concrete
> benefit for consumers or edge providers that the market is not already
> proving today without the aid of any additional regulation.[^pai71]

There’s a special irony given that right before this vote, the FCC voted
to preempt state laws regarding city-owned broadband projects. This is
an initiative President Obama announced just one month before this
*Order* was adopted while he was in Cedar Falls, Iowa, and the FCC is
now dutifully implementing that initiative too. But I’m not sure the
President realized that Cedar Falls Utilities, the very municipal
broadband provider he touted, thinks that Title II is a tremendous
mistake.[^pai72] Well, now he—and we—know better.

It’s for these reasons that the Small Business & Entrepreneurship
Council, a nonprofit organization representing nearly 100,000 small
businesses nationwide, wrote to us that Title II “will deeply erode
investment and innovation, which will dramatically harm entrepreneurs
and small businesses.”[^pai73]

It’s for these reasons that the National Black Chamber of Commerce, the
National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce, the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of
Commerce, and the U.S. Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce wrote us
that “Forcing the Internet into a Title II classification can only make
it more difficult for individuals to make the highest and best use of
this important tool . . . . The last thing small businesses in America
need are more forms to fill out; more regulations to track; and more
rules to follow.”[^pai74]

And it’s for these reasons that the trade associations for our nation’s
smallest Internet service providers asked the FCC last month to “conduct
an *en banc* hearing to examine the significant economic impact of its
proposals on small broadband providers.”[^pai75] I would have welcomed
such an *en banc* hearing. But like all other calls for greater
transparency in this proceeding, this request was denied.

So what does the *Order* tell the Americans whose Internet service
provider isn’t a Comcast, an AT&T, a Google, or a Sprint? What does it
tell those whose service will be more expensive as a direct result of
reclassification? What does it tell those who may lose their Internet
service if their small operator goes out of business? What does it tell
those who worked for years to serve their community and build a
business, one that’s finally in the black? There’s no explanation.
There’s not even an acknowledgement. There’s just the smug assurance
that it won’t be that bad.

### C.

So while the FCC is abandoning a 20-year-old, bipartisan framework for
keeping the Internet free and open in favor of Great Depression-era
legislation designed to regulate Ma Bell, at least the American public
is getting something in return, right? Wrong. The Internet is not
broken. There is no problem for the government to solve.

That the Internet works—that Internet freedom works—should be obvious to
anyone with a Dell laptop or an HP Desktop, an Apple iPhone or Microsoft
Surface, a Samsung Smart TV or a Roku, a Nest Thermostat or a Fitbit. We
live in a time where you can buy a movie from iTunes, watch a music
video on YouTube, post a photo of your daughter on Facebook, listen to a
personalized playlist on Pandora, watch your favorite Philip K. Dick
novel come to life on Amazon Streaming Video, help someone make potato
salad on KickStarter, check out the latest comic at XKCD, see what
Seinfeld’s been up to on Crackle, manage your fantasy football team on
ESPN, get almost any question answered on Quora, navigate bad traffic
with Waze, and do literally hundreds of other things all with an online
connection. At the start of the millennium, we didn’t have *any* of this
Internet innovation.

And no, the federal government didn’t build that. It didn’t trench the
fiber. It didn’t erect the towers. It didn’t string the cable from one
pole to the next, and it didn’t design the routers that direct terabits
of data across the Internet each and every second. It didn’t invest in
startups at the angel or seed stage or Series A rounds. It didn’t code
the webpages, the software, the applications, or the databases that make
the online world useful. And it didn’t create the content that makes
going online so worthwhile.

For all intents and purposes, the Internet didn’t exist until the
private sector took it over in the 1990s, and it’s been the commercial
Internet that has led to the innovation, the creativity, the engineering
genius that we see today.

Nevertheless, the *Order* ominously claims that “[t]hreats to Internet
openness remain today,” that broadband providers “hold all the tools
necessary to deceive consumers, degrade content or disfavor the content
that they don’t like,” and that the FCC continues “to hear concerns
about other broadband provider practices involving blocking or degrading
third-party applications.”[^pai76]

The evidence of these continuing threats? There is none; it’s all
anecdote, hypothesis, and hysteria. A small ISP in North Carolina
allegedly blocked VoIP calls a decade ago. Comcast capped BitTorrent
traffic to ease upload congestion eight years ago. Apple introduced
FaceTime over Wi-Fi first, cellular networks later. Examples this
picayune and stale aren’t enough to tell a coherent story about net
neutrality. The bogeyman never had it so easy.

But the *Order* trots out other horribles: “[B]roadband providers have
both the incentive and the ability to act as gatekeepers,”[^pai77] “the
potential to cause a variety of other negative externalities that hurt
the open nature of the Internet,”[^pai78] and “the incentive and ability
to engage in paid prioritization”[^pai79] or other “consumer
harms.”[^pai80] The common thread linking these and countless other
exhibits is that they simply *do not exist*. One could read the entire
document—and I did—without finding anything more than hypothesized
harms. One would think that a broken Internet marketplace would be rife
with anticompetitive examples. But the agency doesn’t list them. And
it’s not for a lack of effort.

So what is there to fear? A sober reader might borrow from the father of
Title II: “The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.” But the FCC
instead intones the nine scariest words for any friend of Internet
freedom: “I’m from the government, and I’m here to help.”

To put it another way, Title II is not just a solution in search of a
problem—it’s a government solution that creates a real-world problem.
This is not what the Internet needs, and it’s not what the American
people want.

### D.

So—that’s substance. A few words on process. When the Commission
launched this rulemaking, I said that we needed to “give the American
people a full and fair opportunity to participate in this
process.”[^pai81] Unfortunately, over the course of the past nine
months, we have fallen woefully short of that standard.

Most importantly, the plan in front of us today was not formulated
within this building through a transparent notice-and-comment rulemaking
process. Rather, *The Wall Street Journal* reports that it was developed
through “an unusual, secretive effort inside the White House.”[^pai82]
Indeed, White House officials, according to the *Journal*, functioned as
a “parallel version of the FCC.”[^pai83] Their work led to the
President’s announcement in November of his plan for Internet
regulation, a plan which “blindsided” the FCC and “swept aside . . .
months of work by [Chairman] Wheeler toward a compromise.”[^pai84]

Therefore, all of the action at the Commission was just for show. Those
filing comments, holding publicly disclosed meetings with FCC officials,
or participating in FCC roundtables were being led to believe that their
input would matter. But the joke was on them. While the media and the
public were focusing on events at the FCC, the real action was occurring
behind closed doors at the White House.

Of course, a few insiders were clued in about what was transpiring. Just
listen to what a leader for the government-funded[^pai85] group Fight
for the Future had to say: “We’ve been hearing for weeks from our allies
in DC that the only thing that could stop FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler from
moving ahead with his sham proposal to gut net neutrality was if we
could get the President to step in. So we did everything in our power to
make that happen. We took the gloves off and played hard, and now we get
to celebrate a sweet victory.”[^pai86]

What the press has called the “parallel FCC” at the White House opened
its doors to a plethora of special-interest activists: Daily Kos, Demand
Progress, Fight for the Future, Free Press, and Public Knowledge, just
to name a few.[^pai87] Indeed, even before activists were blocking
Chairman Wheeler’s driveway late last year, some of them had met with
White House officials.[^pai88] But what about the rest of the American
people? They certainly couldn’t get White House meetings. They were shut
out of the process. They were being played for fools.

And the situation didn’t improve once the White House announced
President Obama’s plan and “ask[ed]” the FCC to “implement” it.[^pai89]
The document in front of us today differs dramatically from the proposal
that the FCC put out for comment last May. It differs so dramatically
that even net neutrality advocates frantically rushed in recent days to
make last-minute filings registering their concerns that the FCC might
be going too far.[^pai90] Yet the American people to this day have not
been allowed to see President Obama’s plan. It has remained secret.

Especially given the unique importance of the Internet, Commissioner
O’Rielly and I asked for the plan to be released to the public. Senate
Commerce Committee Chairman John Thune and House of Representatives
Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton requested this as well. And
according to a survey last week by a respected Democratic polling firm,
79% of the American people favored making the document public.[^pai91]
But still the FCC’s leadership has insisted on keeping it hidden. We
have to pass President Obama’s 317-page plan so that the American people
can find out what is in it.

This isn’t how the FCC should operate. We should be an independent
agency making decisions in a transparent manner based on the law and the
facts in the record. We shouldn’t be a rubber stamp for political
decisions made by the White House.

And we should have released this plan to the public, solicited their
feedback, incorporated that input into the plan, and then proceeded to a
vote. There was no need for us to resolve this matter today. There is no
immediate crisis in the Internet marketplace that demands immediate
action.

The backers of the President’s plan know this. But they also know that
the details of this plan cannot stand up to the light of day. They know
that the more the American people learn about this plan, the less they
like it. That is why this plan was developed behind closed doors at the
White House. And that is why the plan has remained hidden from public
view.

## II.

There’s another reason the public does not know what rules the *Order*
adopts. The Commission never proposed them.

### A.

Recall that last year’s *Notice* came on the heels of the D.C. Circuit’s
*Verizon* decision, which “struck down the ‘anti-blocking’ and
‘anti-discrimination’ rules,” holding that “the Commission had imposed
*per se* common carriage requirements on providers of Internet access
services.”[^pai92] The purpose of the *Notice* was to “respond directly
to that remand and propose to adopt enforceable rules of the road,
consistent with the court’s opinion, to protect and promote the open
Internet.”[^pai93] Or, as Chairman Wheeler put it: “In response [to the
*Verizon* decision], I promptly stated that we would reinstate rules
that achieve the goals of the 2010 *Order* using the Section 706-based
roadmap laid out by the court. That is what we are proposing
today.”[^pai94]

And it was. Every single proposal and every single tentative conclusion
in the *Notice* was tailored to avoid reclassification and to comply
with the limits the *Verizon* court put on the Commission’s authority
under section 706 of the Telecommunications Act.

For example, the *Notice* proposed to define “blocking” as failing “to
provide an edge provider with a minimum level of access that is
sufficiently robust, fast, and dynamic for effective use by end users
and edge providers.”[^pai95] It did so “to make clear that the
no-blocking rule would allow individualized bargaining above a minimum
level of access,” which was “the revised rationale the court suggested
would be permissible rather than *per se* common carriage.”[^pai96] The
*Notice* then devoted an entire section to “establishing the minimum
level of access under the no-blocking rule,”[^pai97] because “the
[*Verizon*] court suggested [such a rule] would be permissible rather
than *per se* common carriage”[^pai98] and would be “[c]onsistent with
the court’s ruling.”[^pai99]

The *Notice* was even more forthright that its proposed rule barring
commercially unreasonable practices was tied to the limits of the
*Verizon* decision. Under that rule, the Commission would, “consistent
with the court’s decision, . . . permit broadband providers to engage in
individualized practices”—indeed, the “encouragement of individualized
negotiation” was one of its “essential elements.”[^pai100] The *Notice*
tentatively concluded that such a rule was appropriate because the
“court underscored the validity of the ‘commercially reasonable’ legal
standard”[^pai101] and “explained that such an approach distinguished
the data roaming rules at issue in *Cellco* from common carrier
obligations.”[^pai102] Or as the *Notice* put it: “The core purpose of
the legal standard that we wish to adopt . . . is to effectively employ
the authority that the *Verizon* court held was within the Commission’s
power under section 706.”[^pai103] Or as the title of that subpart put
it even more bluntly: The goal of the FCC was “codifying an enforceable
rule to protect the open Internet that is not common carriage *per
se*.”[^pai104]

If this weren’t enough, the FCC “propose[d] that the Commission exercise
its authority under section 706, consistent with the D.C. Circuit’s
opinion in *Verizon v. FCC*, to adopt our proposed rules”[^pai105] and
then cited section 706 of the Telecommunications Act—*but not a single
provision of Title II*—in the *Notice*’s ordering clauses.[^pai106] And
it affirmatively proposed to remove several legal provisions from the
“authority” section of our Part 8 “Open Internet” rules—including all
references to Title II—and leave section 706 of the Telecommunications
Act as the prime authority for the proposed rules.[^pai107]

In all, the *Notice* cited or quoted the *Verizon* decision 52 separate
times,[^pai108] proposed two pages of rules that would be consistent
with that decision and within the Commission’s section 706
authority,[^pai109] and reiterated in tentative conclusion after
tentative conclusion that the FCC should tread no further than the
limits the *Verizon* court set on the FCC’s authority under section 706.

Contrast that with today’s decision. The entire *Order* is premised on
the reclassification of broadband Internet access service as a Title II,
telecommunications service. Accordingly, none of these rules follow the
section 706-based roadmap laid out by the *Verizon* court, and none of
them purport to do so.[^pai110] As a result, instead of a
minimum-level-of-access rule (that would follow the roadmap), the
*Order* adopts the flat no-blocking rule that the *Verizon* court
overturned.[^pai111] Instead of the rule against commercially
unreasonable practices, which was intended to encourage “individualized
negotiation,” the *Order* adopts a flat ban on individual negotiations
through a no-paid-prioritization rule.[^pai112] And rather than limiting
the new rules to those proposed in the *Notice*, the *Order* also adopts
a never-before-proposed no-throttling rule[^pai113] and a wholly new
no-unreasonable-interference-or-unreasonable-disadvantage standard for
Internet conduct.[^pai114]

Given this new legal justification, it’s no wonder that the FCC now
feels compelled to cite nine new sources of legal authority for adopting
the *Order*, invoking sections 201 and 202 of Title II along with
sections 3, 10, 301, 332, 403, 501, and 503 of the Communications
Act.[^pai115] Nor that the final rules purport to rely on 20 sections of
the Communications Act that were not included in the original proposal,
including several sections not discussed even once in the
*Notice*.[^pai116]

In sum, the *Notice* proposed “the terms . . . of the proposed rule” and
a “reference to the legal authority under which the rule is
proposed.”[^pai117] But the *Order* adopts something completely
different. That’s not what the Administrative Procedure Act envisions.

### B.

None of this is to say that the Commission had to adopt the exact same
rules under the precise rationale proposed in the *Notice*. Of course,
the adopted rules may be the “logical outgrowth” of the original
proposal.[^pai118] But the *Order*’s decision to reclassify, to forbear,
and to adopt rules grounded in Title II is a reversal of the proposals
and tentative conclusions in the *Notice*, not a natural evolution.

The standard is whether all interested parties “*should* *have*
anticipated” the final rule.[^pai119] The question “is one of fair
notice”[^pai120]: whether “persons are sufficiently alerted to likely
alternatives so that they know whether their interests are at
stake.”[^pai121] In other words, “general notice that a new standard
will be adopted affords the parties scant opportunity for comment”—the
“agency’s obligation is more demanding.”[^pai122]

Although the agency dutifully recites that standard,[^pai123] at points
it seems to apply a different one: something akin to asking whether
parties *could have* anticipated the final rule.[^pai124] In essence,
the *Order* suggests an agency may adopt *any* rule unless it was
impossible for anyone to anticipate that rule. No court, to my
knowledge, has ever endorsed such a standard. And it’s easy to see why:
Such a standard would give an agency a tremendous incentive to outline
its proposals in broad and vague terms to expand the realm of
possibility. Notices of proposed rulemaking could be nothing more than a
single sentence: “We propose to regulate XYZ.”

Here’s an illustration of how those standards differ. Say you and a
friend are in Kansas. The two of you have been talking every day for
months about how wonderful it would be to visit San Francisco. One day,
your friend brings up San Francisco yet again and says “Say, we’ve
talked enough about this. I propose we go on a cross-country drive. Do
you want to come?” Eager to go west, you say yes. You get in the car,
fall asleep for a few hours, and wake up to find that . . . you’re
heading east toward Boston! “Wait,” you protest, “I thought we were
heading to San Francisco!” Your friend replies: “Well, I proposed merely
that we go on a cross-country drive. I know we’d been talking every day
for months about San Francisco, but you could have realized that I had
Boston in mind.” Deflated, you retort: “But *should* I have? Shouldn’t
you have told me we were heading to Boston and given me a chance to say
yes or no before we hit the road?”

Here’s another one. Say a government agency seeks competitive bids to
build a suspension bridge. The request for proposals details how the
suspension bridge should be built but reserves the right to build
another type of bridge instead. Could a bidder anticipate that the
government will hire someone to build an arch bridge through this RFP?
Perhaps. But what should bidders expect? That if the agency decides not
to build the proposed suspension bridge, it will issue a new RFP.
Otherwise, a serious bidder would be obligated to draw plans and submit
a proposal for each and every type of bridge feasible—thus reducing the
quality of each response since every bidder would need to spread its
resources anticipating possibilities rather than focusing on the
proposal at hand.

Indeed, courts have repeatedly held that “if the final rule deviates too
sharply from the proposal, affected parties will be deprived of notice
and an opportunity to respond to the proposal.”[^pai125] And so when a
notice of proposed rulemaking has “clearly stated that the FCC intended
to adopt [a proposed rule]” and “even recited the rationale for the
proposed rule,” the courts have reversed the Commission when “the final
rule took a contrary position.”[^pai126]

The *Order*’s primary retort appears to be that—alongside its section
706-based proposals and tentative conclusions—the *Notice* sought
comment on alternatives.[^pai127] As the *Order* puts it, the *Notice*
“proposed to rely on section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996,
but at the same time stated that it would ‘seriously consider the use of
Title II of the Communications Act as the basis for legal authority.’
The [*Notice*] sought comment on the benefits of both section 706 and
Title II, and emphasized its recognition that ‘both section 706 and
Title II are viable solutions.’”[^pai128]

It’s true that the *Notice* sought comment on reclassification. Here is
that entire discussion:

> *Title II—Revisiting the Classification of Broadband Internet Access
> Service*. In a series of decisions beginning in 2002, the Commission
> has classified broadband Internet access service offered over cable
> modem, DSL and other wireline facilities, wireless facilities, and
> power lines as an information service, which is not subject to Title
> II and cannot be regulated as common carrier service. In 2010,
> following the D.C. Circuit’s *Comcast* decision, the Commission issued
> a Notice of Inquiry (*2010 NOI*) that, among other things, asked
> whether the Commission should revisit these decisions and classify a
> telecommunications component service of wired broadband Internet
> access service as a “telecommunications service.” The Commission also
> asked whether it should similarly alter its approach to wireless
> broadband Internet access service, noting that section 332 requires
> that wireless services that meet the definition of “commercial mobile
> service” be regulated as common carriers under Title II. In response,
> the Commission received substantial comments on these issues. We now
> seek further and updated comment on whether the Commission should
> revisit its prior classification decisions and apply Title II to
> broadband Internet access service (or components thereof). How would
> such a reclassification approach serve our goal to protect and promote
> Internet openness? What would be the legal bases and theories for
> particular open Internet rules adopted pursuant to such an approach?
> Would reclassification and applying Title II for the purpose of
> protecting and promoting Internet openness impact the Commission’s
> overall policy goals and, if so, how?
>
> What factors should the Commission keep in mind as it considers
> whether to revisit its prior decisions? Have there been changes to the
> broadband marketplace that should lead us to reconsider our prior
> classification decisions? To what extent is any telecommunications
> component of that service integrated with applications and other
> offerings, such that they are “inextricably intertwined” with the
> underlying connectivity service? Is broadband Internet access service
> (or any telecommunications component thereof) held out “for a fee
> directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be
> effectively available directly to the public?” If not, should the
> Commission compel the offering of such functionality on a common
> carrier basis even if not offered as such? For mobile broadband
> Internet access service, does that service fit within the definition
> of “commercial mobile service”? We also note that on May 14, 2014,
> Representative Henry Waxman, Ranking Member of the Committee on Energy
> and Commerce of the U.S. House of Representatives, sent a letter to
> Chairman Wheeler proposing an approach to protecting the open Internet
> whereby the Commission would proceed under section 706 but use Title
> II as a “backstop authority.” We seek comment on the viability of that
> approach.[^pai129]

If these two paragraphs, tucked into an 85-page document, are sufficient
notice to discard the regulatory framework for Internet access services
that the Commission has relied on for almost two decades—a framework the
FCC has affirmed time[^pai130] and again[^pai131] and again[^pai132] and
again[^pai133] and again[^pai134]—and the myriad of related precedents
and agency rules, then the FCC (and likely every federal agency) has
been doing notice-and-comment rulemaking wrong for decades. I am not
aware of, and the *Order* does not cite, one single notice of proposed
rulemaking that the Commission has issued that is so abbreviated. Nor
one that would reverse so much precedent with so little analysis. Nor
one whose consequences would be so far reaching (and collateral impacts
so many) with so little discussion. Just look at the *Notice*’s detailed
discussion of the FCC’s section 706 authority to see how we normally tee
up a proposal.[^pai135] Or look at the 83-paragraph notice of proposed
rulemaking that preceded the classification of wireline broadband
Internet access service as an information service to see how we normally
tee up a new regulatory framework.[^pai136] The contrast could not be
starker.[^pai137]

The failure of the *Notice* to properly frame the Title II proposal
matters. Indeed, “[a]n agency adopting final rules that differ from its
proposed rules is required to renotice when the changes are so major
that the original notice did not adequately frame the subjects for
discussion. The purpose of the new notice is to allow interested parties
a fair opportunity to comment upon the final rules in their altered
form.”[^pai138]

And given the *Notice*’s framing, I simply cannot understand how any
commenter could have anticipated—let alone should have anticipated—the
128 paragraphs of the *Order* that explain the Commission’s rationale
for reclassification and the ramifications of that decision.[^pai139]
Search the *Notice*’s two paragraphs as I might, I cannot ferret out
*any discussion* of the three factual changes that have led to the
Commission’s determination today—namely, “(1) consumer conduct, . . .
(2) broadband providers’ marketing and pricing strategies . . . and (3)
the technical characteristics of broadband Internet access
service.”[^pai140] Nor can I find any discussion of how Domain Name
System (DNS) service, caching, or any other feature of broadband
Internet access service falls into the telecommunications system
management exception to the definition of information service (or even
any discussion of the meaning of that exception).[^pai141] Nor can I
find any discussion of the benefits reclassification would have for
broadband investment.[^pai142] Nor can I find any discussion of what
reclassification means for state or local regulation of broadband
services.[^pai143] Nor can I find any mention that the FCC’s past
“predictive judgments . . . anticipating vibrant intermodal competition”
were wrong.[^pai144]

To get to the point: Could someone reading the *Notice* have anticipated
the FCC might reject its past proposals and tentative conclusions and
instead pursue reclassification? Perhaps. Anything is possible. But
*should* the public have anticipated the FCC would move forward with
reclassification without issuing a Further Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking? Surely not. The *Notice* itself left just too many questions
unanswered—and too many questions unasked for that matter.

To be clear, the deficiencies in the *Notice* were not the product of
incompetence. Rather, they reflect the fact that the agency was headed
in a different direction until political pressure was applied to the
Commission last November. Specifically, President Obama’s endorsement of
Title II forced a change in the FCC’s approach.[^pai145] Indeed, the
agency was publicly considering a so-called “hybrid” approach on the day
of the President’s announcement[^pai146] and was reportedly pursuing
such an approach even in the days after that announcement[^pai147]—only
to succumb to executive branch entreaties when pen was put to
paper.[^pai148]

But the Commission cannot credibly claim APA notice from the White
House’s November 10 YouTube announcement of “President Obama’s Plan for
a Free and Open Internet.”[^pai149] Although that announcement did
(unlike the *Notice*) propose reclassification under Title II[^pai150]
and did (again unlike the *Notice*) propose “bright-line” no-blocking,
no-throttling, and no-paid-prioritization rules,[^pai151] I can find no
record of the FCC voting on that proposal, publishing it in the Federal
Register, nor soliciting the public for comment.

Nor, for that matter, can the *Order* point to Chairman Wheeler’s
February 4 editorial on Wired.com explaining “This Is How We Will Ensure
Net Neutrality.”[^pai152] Although that announcement did (unlike the
*Notice*) propose reclassification under Title II[^pai153] and did
(again unlike the *Notice*) propose “bright-line” no-blocking,
no-throttling, and no-paid-prioritization rules,[^pai154] I again can
find no record of the FCC voting on that proposal, publishing it in the
Federal Register, nor soliciting the public for comment.

Some of us at the FCC have seen this movie before. About one month
before concluding the FCC’s 2006 media ownership proceeding, then-FCC
Chairman Kevin Martin published an editorial in *The New York Times*
unveiling his own proposal for revising the newspaper/broadcast
cross-ownership rule. In its *Prometheus* decision, the Third Circuit
explained that the editorial “did not satisfy the APA’s notice
requirements. The proposal was not published in the Federal Register,
the views expressed were those of one person and not the Commission, and
the Commission voted days after substantive responses were filed,
allowing little opportunity for meaningful consideration of the
responses before the final rule was adopted.”[^pai155] It then went on:
“Although it was clear from [several Commission notices], taken
together, that the Commission was planning to overhaul its approach to
newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership, they did not contain enough
information about what it was planning to do, or the options it was
considering, to provide the public with a meaningful opportunity to
comment. Until Chairman Martin’s November 2007 personal Op-Ed/Press
Release, the public did not know even what options he was considering,
let alone the Commission.”[^pai156] If anything, Chairman Martin
provided more notice than has been offered in this proceeding. There, he
made public the exact text of his proposed newspaper/broadcast
cross-ownership rule. Here, the details of the Chairman’s complex
proposal have remained shrouded in mystery.

Indeed, it was widely reported that the Commission strongly considered
seeking additional comment because of the notice problems.[^pai157] In
an email sent to the press, a “commission spokeswoman” described a blog
post that Chairman Wheeler published just hours after President Obama
called for reclassification and said: “The Chairman said in his
statement last Monday that there is more work to do and substantive
legal questions to answer.” She then added that “[t]he Commission is
considering the best way to invite additional comments on those
questions.”[^pai158] But ultimately, after even more political pressure
was put on the agency to move forward without seeking comment,[^pai159]
the agency decided to plow ahead.

So here we are. We are moving forward with an *Order* the contours of
which no one could have or should have anticipated, considering how
drastically different the *Notice*’s proposals were. The FCC proposed to
the public a cross-country trip to San Francisco. Only after the car was
on the road did the public realize the agency was taking it to Boston.

### C.

The failure of notice extends beyond the rules and rationale to discrete
decisions littered throughout the *Order*. Rather than cataloging each
and every failure, I’ll give three examples to illustrate just how far
afield the *Order* has strayed from the *Notice*: (1) its application of
forbearance to broadband Internet access service; (2) the treatment of
Internet traffic exchange (or IP interconnection); and (3) the new
definition of the statutory term “the public switched network.”

*1. Forbearance Applied to Broadband Internet Access Service*.—Consider
the application of forbearance to broadband Internet access service. To
be sure, the *Notice* included three paragraphs seeking comment on “the
extent to which forbearance from certain provisions of the Act or our
rules would be justified in order to strike the right balance between
minimizing the regulatory burden on providers and ensuring that the
public interest is served,”[^pai160] asked whether forbearance should
differ for mobile broadband services,[^pai161] and identified six
sections of Title II that might be “excluded from forbearance.”[^pai162]
But as the courts have told us before, even if it was “clear from those
sources, taken together, that the Commission was” considering
forbearance, “they did not contain enough information about what it was
planning to do, or the options it was considering, to provide the public
with a meaningful opportunity to comment.”[^pai163]

*For one*, the *Order*’s forbearance decisions are expansive,
encompassing at least 49 separate decisions. The *Order* decides, for
example, that sections 201 (in part), 202 (in part), 206, 207, 208, 209,
214(e), 216, 217, 222, 224 (including subsection (e)), 225 (but not
subparagraph (d)(3)(B)), 229, 230, 251(a)(2), 254 (but not the first
sentence of subsection (d) nor subsections (g) or (k)), 255, 257, 276,
and 309(b) & (d)(1) of the Communications Act will apply to broadband
Internet access service.[^pai164] That’s 20 separate sections that will
apply in whole or part, 14 more than mentioned in the *Notice*. The
*Order* then goes on to temporarily forbear, in whole or part, from
applying 15 sections[^pai165] and to permanently forbear, in whole or
part, from 14 more.[^pai166] And that’s just the provisions of the Act!
The *Order* also forbears from some of the Commission’s rules,[^pai167]
applies others,[^pai168] forbears from conducting certain further
rulemakings,[^pai169] and commits to commencing still others.[^pai170]
To suggest that any party could have or should have anticipated the
byzantine dictates that the *Order* takes 103 paragraphs over 62 pages
to explain,[^pai171] based on three high-level paragraphs in the
*Notice*, is simply implausible.

*For another*, no party could have anticipated the Commission’s
rationale for forbearing from some provisions but not others based on
the *Notice*.[^pai172] The *Notice* gave no rationale for when
forbearance might be appropriate under these particular circumstances.
Instead, it asked commenters to provide a “justification for the
forbearance” and told commenters to “define the relevant geographic and
product markets in which the services or providers should receive
forbearance.”[^pai173] In other words, this isn’t even a case where the
agency has “simply propose[d] a rule and state[d] that it might change
that rule without alerting any of the affected parties to the scope of
the contemplated change, or its potential impact and rationale, or any
other alternatives under consideration.”[^pai174] Here, the *Notice*
proposed *nothing at all* and asked commenters for forbearance
proposals—and the *Order* now adopts some but not all of those proposals
using a rationale never before explained.[^pai175] The “‘logical
outgrowth’ doctrine does not extend to a final rule that finds no roots
in the agency’s proposal because ‘[s]omething is not a logical outgrowth
of nothing.’”[^pai176]

And to put it lightly, this isn’t how forbearance usually works. When
the Commission has previously forborne as part of a rulemaking, the
underlying notice has sought specific comment on whether the FCC should
forbear from applying a particular statutory provision to a particular
class of carriers and has specified why such forbearance may be
appropriate.[^pai177] Indeed, when the FCC first applied forbearance to
commercial mobile services, it commenced that proceeding with a detailed
notice of proposed rulemaking that examined its new forbearance
authority under section 332(c)(1)(A). It explained how the Commission’s
view of competition affected its forbearance analysis. And it offered
rationales for forbearing or not forbearing from each statutory
provision.[^pai178]

The standard for petitioners seeking forbearance is equally high:
Petitions must identify “[e]ach statutory provision, rule, or
requirement for which forbearance is sought” and “[e]ach geographic
location, zone, or area from which forbearance is sought,” must “contain
facts and argument which, if true and persuasive, are sufficient to meet
each of the statutory criteria,” and must offer a “full statement of the
petitioner’s *prima facie* case for relief.”[^pai179] The FCC itself
never seriously attempted to meet these standards in the *Notice*, thus
“present[ing] interested parties with a moving target, which frustrates
their efforts to respond fully and early in the process.”[^pai180] Or as
one party to this proceeding put it: “In essence the Commission is
asking the public to shadowbox with itself.”[^pai181]

*2.* *Internet Traffic Exchange (also Known as IP Interconnection)*.—The
*Notice* discussed Internet traffic exchange in a single paragraph,
tentatively concluding that the FCC should maintain the approach it had
previously taken so that the Part 8 “Open Internet” rules would not
apply “to the exchange of traffic between networks, whether peering,
paid peering, content delivery network (CDN) connection, or any other
form of inter-network transmission of data, as well as provider-owned
facilities that are dedicated solely to such interconnection.”[^pai182]
Today, the *Order* follows through on that tentative conclusion and
concludes that application of the Part 8 rules to Internet traffic
exchanged “is not warranted.”[^pai183]

But the *Order* then goes quite a bit further and adopts a “regulatory
backstop prohibiting common carriers from engaging in unjust and
unreasonable practices,”[^pai184] subjecting Internet traffic exchange
arrangements like those mentioned immediately above to “sections 201 and
202 on a case-by-case basis.”[^pai185] With this authority, the
Commission can order an Internet service provider “to establish physical
connections with other carriers, to establish through routes and charges
applicable thereto . . . , and to establish and provide facilities and
regulations for operating such through routes.”[^pai186] In other words,
the *Order* classifies Internet traffic exchange as a Title II
telecommunications service in everything but name.

The *Notice* proposed nothing like this. As one commenter has observed:
“Nowhere did the Commission remotely indicate that it was considering
classifying the distinct *wholesale* Internet traffic-exchange services
that ISPs provide to other network owners as Title II telecommunications
services.”[^pai187] To add to the list, nowhere did the *Notice* propose
applying sections 201 or 202 of the Act to Internet traffic exchange,
and nowhere did the *Notice* suggest that the FCC might order physical
connections, through routes, or appropriate charges in response to an IP
interconnection dispute.

And when the Commission adopted the *Notice*, the Chairman himself
disclaimed that Internet traffic exchange would be part of this
proceeding: “Separate and apart from this connectivity is the question
of interconnection (‘peering’) between the consumer’s network provider
and the various networks that deliver to that ISP. That is a different
matter that is better addressed separately. Today’s proposal is all
about what happens on the broadband provider’s network and how the
consumer’s connection to the Internet may not be interfered with or
otherwise compromised.”[^pai188] When the Chairman of the Commission—the
agency’s “chief executive officer”[^pai189]—says that the proposal is
“all about” something other than interconnection, why should parties
have anticipated the opposite?

To claim, as the *Order* does, that these are just “regulatory
consequences” flowing from other decisions in the *Order* is no
defense.[^pai190] Not once in the *Notice* did the Commission suggest
that Internet traffic exchange was a “component” of broadband Internet
access service (as the *Order* now claims).[^pai191] If anything, the
*Notice* disclaimed that notion, tentatively concluding to “retain” the
definition of broadband Internet access service from the 2010 *Open
Internet Order* “without modification.”[^pai192] As the *Notice* stated,
the rules based on that definition were “not intended ‘to affect
existing arrangements for network interconnection’” and “did not apply
beyond ‘the limits of a broadband provider’s control over the
transmission of data to or from its broadband customers.’”[^pai193] The
*Notice* then confirmed that any edge-provider-facing service it
recognized would “include the flow of Internet traffic on the broadband
providers’ own network[s], *and not how it gets to the broadband
providers’ networks*.”[^pai194]

Nor can the *Order* plausibly claim that “numerous submissions in the
record . . . illustrate that the Commission . . . gave interested
parties adequate notice” of the Title II-based backstop adopted
here.[^pai195] Although many parties discussed Internet traffic exchange
during the comment period, they did so because the *Notice* asked if the
FCC should change course and apply the Part 8 rules to IP
interconnection, a proposal the *Order* squarely rejects today. The
submissions during the comment period say nothing about a Title II-based
backstop—and even a cursory review of those filings shows that no party
anticipated the approach the *Order* now adopts.

*3. Redefining the Public Switched Network*.—Consider the *Order*’s new
definition for the statutory term “the public switched
network.”[^pai196] As background, section 332 of the Communications Act
bars the FCC from treating any mobile service—such as mobile broadband
Internet access service—as a telecommunications service unless that
mobile service is interconnected with the public switched
network.[^pai197] By redefining the term “the public switched network”
to include services that use “public IP addresses,”[^pai198] the *Order*
argues that mobile broadband Internet access service now meets the
definition for commercial mobile service and thus can be treated as a
telecommunications service.[^pai199]

But the *Notice* never proposed a new definition for the public switched
network. Appendix A of the *Notice* did not include such a definition in
the list of “proposed rules.”[^pai200] The text of the *Notice* did not
seek comment on redefining the term.[^pai201] Indeed, the *Notice* never
even mentioned the term “the public switched network” or the portion of
the FCC rule that currently defines it. Instead, the new definition came
from Vonage Holdings Corp. in its comments two full months after the
Commission adopted the *Notice*.[^pai202] Although the Commission can
address comments in the record (and must respond to significant ones),
an agency “must *itself* provide notice of a regulatory proposal. Having
failed to do so, it cannot bootstrap notice from a comment.”[^pai203]

The *Order* attempts to establish notice for this new definition by
pointing to several other questions asked in the *Notice*,[^pai204] such
as “whether the Commission should revisit its prior classification
decisions and apply Title II to broadband Internet access
service”[^pai205] and “the extent to which forbearance should apply, if
the Commission were to classify mobile broadband Internet access service
as a CMRS service subject to Title II.”[^pai206] But even the most
specific question the *Order* points to—“does [mobile broadband Internet
access] service fit within the definition of ‘commercial mobile
service’?”[^pai207]—falls short of putting the public on notice, since
that question takes the definition of commercial mobile service (and
hence public switched network) as a given. As the courts have told us
before, “[e]ven if this *was* the FCC’s intent, ‘an unexpressed
intention cannot convert a final rule into a ‘logical outgrowth’ that
the public should have anticipated.’”[^pai208]

Notably, the *Order* relies on these same passages as providing notice
that the FCC would amend its rules to define mobile broadband Internet
access service as the “functional equivalent of a commercial mobile
service.”[^pai209] But, again, the *Notice* never proposed to amend this
rule. Appendix A of the *Notice* did not include any change to this rule
in the list of “proposed rules.”[^pai210] And the text of the *Notice*
did not mention the term “functional equivalent” even once in the
context of classifying mobile broadband Internet access
service.[^pai211] Nor does the *Notice* anywhere mention the FCC rule
that delineates the framework that the agency has long used to determine
whether a service is a “functional equivalent” of a commercial mobile
service.[^pai212] Yet today’s *Order* fashions and applies a novel and
entirely different framework for doing so.

With the *Notice* silent on all of these points, the first filing to
address “functional equivalency” came 32 days after the comment period
had closed on the *Notice*, following a private meeting between FCC
officials and CTIA.[^pai213] Just as the Commission cannot “bootstrap
notice from a comment,”[^pai214] it cannot use *ex parte* meetings to
inform select members of the public of the Commission’s thinking and
then claim notice from such meetings.[^pai215] The Administrative
Procedure Act’s notice-and-comment provisions were intended to ensure a
robust debate among *all* parties, not just those invited to
participate.

What is more, the lack of notice for these rule amendments prejudices
even those who are not party to this proceeding. After all, the
statutory bar on common carrier treatment applies to *any* mobile
service not interconnected with the public switched network.[^pai216]
Thus, before today, online innovators could be sure that mobile
applications that did not interconnect with the public switched
telephone network could *not* be regulated as telecommunications
services. That statutory safe harbor is now gone, even though the FCC
never alerted those innovators that such a change could be coming.

### D.

In sum, the Commission issued the *Notice* in May when it was heading in
one direction (a section 706 solution). It shifted course in November
after the President urged the agency to implement a very different plan
(a reclassification regime). Rather than following the proper procedure
and issuing a further notice, the FCC charged ahead at the behest of
activists who were suspicious of the Commission’s commitment to their
cause and thus demanded that agency adopt rules without delay. That is
not what the Administrative Procedure Act demands nor what the American
people deserve.

## III.

The legal flaws with this *Order* are not limited to improper
procedures; they extend into substance as well.

### A.

One of the most basic of those flaws is the FCC’s determination that it
can reclassify broadband Internet access service as a Title II
telecommunications service. Neither the text of the Communications Act
nor our precedent condones such a decision. And while the *Order*
invokes changed circumstances to justify its reversal of course, the
cited circumstances are neither changed nor otherwise adequate to
justify applying Title II to broadband Internet access services. In
short, this decision is unlawful.

Start with the text of the Communications Act, and specifically the term
“information service,” which was added through the Telecommunications
Act of 1996. Congress defined the term to mean:

> [T]he offering of a capability for generating, acquiring, storing,
> transforming, processing, retrieving, utilizing, or making available
> information via telecommunications, and includes electronic
> publishing, but does not include any use of any such capability for
> the management, control, or operation of a telecommunications system
> or the management of a telecommunications service.[^pai217]

Internet access service comfortably fits within this framework. Can an
ISP’s subscriber generate, store, and make available information via
telecommunications? Of course—Internet users do that every day on
Facebook. Can such a subscriber acquire, retrieve, and process
information via telecommunications? Yes—just check out Google Translate.
Can such a subscriber transform and utilize information via
telecommunications? Absolutely—just try one of the Internet’s hundreds
of video editing sites. Would such a subscriber have these capabilities
without Internet access service? Obviously not.

Indeed, Congress itself called on the Commission to treat Internet
access service as an unregulated, information service elsewhere in the
Communications Act.[^pai218] Section 230 established the “policy of the
United States . . . to preserve the vibrant and competitive free market
that presently exists for the Internet and *other* interactive computer
services, unfettered by Federal or State regulation.”[^pai219] That
section went on to define “interactive computer service” as “any
information service . . . provider that provides or enables computer
access by multiple users to a computer server, *including specifically a
service or system that provides access to the Internet*.”[^pai220] In
other words, Congress directly addressed the question of whether an ISP
offered an information service—and answered with a resounding “Yes.”

So it’s no wonder that every time the Commission has previously
confronted the question of whether an Internet access service is an
information service, it has answered yes.[^pai221] And it’s no wonder
that when the Supreme Court reviewed the FCC’s determination that
broadband Internet access service over cable facilities was an
information service, that decision went “unchallenged.”[^pai222]

*1. The Stevens Report*.—The Commission’s first major decision in this
regard—1998’s *Stevens Report*—is particularly instructive regarding
why.[^pai223] That report came at the behest of Congress to review “the
definitions of ‘information service’ . . . [and] ‘telecommunications
service,’” along with “the application of those definitions to mixed or
hybrid services . . . including with respect to Internet
access.”[^pai224] The *Stevens Report* then exhaustively reviewed the
text and legislative history of the Telecommunications Act, along with
the agency’s own administrative precedent and the courts’ administration
of antitrust law, to answer these questions. Here are the highlights:

*First*, the *Stevens Report* found that Congress intended to
incorporate judicial precedent into the term “information
service”—specifically, the Modification of Final Judgment breaking up
the Bell system.[^pai225] The court had prohibited the Bell operating
companies from providing any “information service,”[^pai226] and the
Telecommunications Act’s definition paralleled the court’s definition
almost word for word.[^pai227] Most relevant here, the court explained
that the term covered “two distinctly different types” of services: both
“data processing and other computer-related services” and “electronic
publishing services,” such as news and entertainment.[^pai228]

*Second*, the *Stevens Report* found that Congress intended to
incorporate administrative precedent into the term “information
service”—specifically, the Commission’s development of the concept of
“enhanced service” in its *Computer Inquiries* proceeding.[^pai229]
Under that precedent, the Commission had eschewed the idea that it could
divide up an integrated service into its component parts: “[N]o
regulatory scheme could ‘rationally distinguish and classify enhanced
services as either communications or data processing,’ and any dividing
line the Commission drew would at best ‘result in an unpredictable or
inconsistent scheme of regulation’ as technology moved
forward.”[^pai230] In other words, even though enhanced services were
“offered ‘*over* common carrier transmission facilities,’ [they] were
themselves not to be regulated under Title II of the Act, *no matter how
extensive their communications components*.”[^pai231]

*Third*, the *Stevens Report* found that the “functions and services
associated with Internet access,” such as “the provision of gateways
(involving address translation, protocol conversion, billing management,
and the provision of introductory information content) to information
services” and “[e]lectronic mail, like other store-and-forward
services,” were all “classed as ‘information services’ under the
[Modified Final Judgment].”[^pai232] Similarly, the “Commission has
consistently classed such services as ‘enhanced services.’”[^pai233]

*Fourth*, the *Stevens Report* concluded that “address[ing] the
classification of Internet access service *de novo*” led to the same
conclusion: Internet access service is an information service according
to the statute. The question was “whether Internet access providers
merely offer transmission . . . or whether they go beyond the provision
of a transparent transmission path.”[^pai234] And the report concluded
that “the latter more accurately describes Internet access
service”[^pai235] since Internet access services “combine computer
processing, information provision, and other computer-mediated offerings
with data transport.”[^pai236] The fact that data transport was a
component of the service was irrelevant[^pai237]—what mattered was that
“[s]ubscribers can retrieve files from the World Wide Web, and browse
their contents, *because* their service provider offers the ‘capability
for . . . acquiring, . . . retrieving [and] utilizing . . .
information.”[^pai238]

In other words, the *Stevens Report* endorsed the view of a bipartisan
group of Senators—John Ashcroft, Wendell Ford, John F. Kerry, Spencer
Abraham, and Ron Wyden—that “[n]othing in the 1996 Act or its
legislative history suggests that Congress intended to alter the current
classification of Internet and other information services or to expand
traditional telephone regulation to new and advanced services.”[^pai239]
And it essentially agreed with Senator John McCain that “[i]t certainly
was not Congress’s intent in enacting the supposedly pro-competitive,
deregulatory 1996 Act to *extend* the burdens of current Title II
regulation to Internet services, which historically have been excluded
from regulation.”[^pai240]

Indeed, the *Stevens Report* noted that while the 1996
Telecommunications Act’s “explicit endorsement of the goals of
competition and deregulation represents a significant break from the
prior statutory framework,”[^pai241] the Commission’s review of the
statute and its legislative history revealed no similar intent to effect
a “major change” with respect to the regulatory treatment of enhanced
services like Internet access service.[^pai242] And if anything, it
found the goals of the Telecommunications Act to “promote competition
and reduce regulation”[^pai243] supported the Commission’s
classification decisions, since making Internet access and other
enhanced services “presumptively subject to the broad range of Title II
constraints[] could seriously curtail the regulatory freedom that the
Commission concluded in *Computer II* was important to the healthy and
competitive development of the enhanced-services industry.”[^pai244]
Indeed, in passing the 1996 Telecommunications Act, Congress made this
clear by declaring it the policy of the United States “to preserve the
vibrant and competitive free market that presently exists for the
Internet and other interactive computer services, unfettered by Federal
or State regulation.”[^pai245]

*2. Recent Developments.*—Developments in the marketplace since the
*Stevens Report* make it even more clear that ISPs do not “merely offer
transmission” between points of the user’s choosing but instead offer a
highly complex information service.

Take the most basic example of visiting a webpage via a browser. When
the user types a domain name into a browser, the browser typically
queries the ISP’s Domain Name System (DNS) service for the proper IP
address to send that information. The DNS service determines whether
that information is stored on the local server; if so, it returns that
IP address to the user, and if not, it queries another DNS server. Such
DNS servers are typically arranged in a hierarchy and searched
recursively; once the URL is found, the appropriate information is
forwarded and stored by each DNS server in the chain. These
functionalities—caching information and storing and forwarding
information—are classic enhanced services.[^pai246]

It gets even more complicated. For one, there is no necessary one-to-one
correlation between domain names and IP addresses.[^pai247] So if an
Internet user in California and a user in New York City both seek the IP
address for www.yahoo.com, an ISP could return different IP addresses to
each user. The assignment could be random (to balance the load the
server at each IP address must handle). Or the ISP could make the
decision based on any number of factors, such as the physical proximity
of the servers to the user (to reduce the latency of the connection).

For another, even with an IP address, an ISP may not connect a user with
a particular end point. Instead, ISPs regularly cache popular
content—anything from simple text to streaming video—so that when a
subscriber requests such content it can be retrieved more quickly (and
with less load on the network) than would occur if the request were sent
to its specified destination.[^pai248] And it’s not just an ISP’s own
servers that cache content; an entire industry of content delivery
networks have sprung up to move content closer to Internet users to
improve performance.[^pai249]

And there’s still more: ISPs are eliminating viruses and other malicious
attacks on their networks, including by (1) implementing DNS Security
Extensions to verify the integrity of the DNS information retrieved for
subscribers, (2) erecting firewalls and other screening mechanisms to
prevent denial-of-service attacks and the effectiveness of botnets, and
(3) monitoring network traffic patterns to ensure early detection of
security threats.[^pai250] They are using network address translation to
establish non-public IP addresses for their subscribers.[^pai251] And
they are processing protocols to bridge the gap between IPv4 and
IPv6.[^pai252]

The end result of all this? Even for the most basic web browsing
functions, an ISP is doing more than merely offering transmission
between points of the user’s choosing. Indeed, as one commenter put it,
“it is literally *impossible* for a broadband user to specify the
‘points’ of an Internet ‘transmission’ on the web” since the user is
really just “specifying the original *source of the information* the
user wants to retrieve” and the ISP then uses that information to choose
the endpoint among several alternatives.[^pai253] Or as the *Stevens
Report* put it, Internet access service enables subscribers “to access
information with no knowledge of the physical location of the server
where that information resides,”[^pai254] not “between or among points
specified by the user.”[^pai255]

The contrary conclusion—that Internet access service is a
telecommunications service and that DNS service, caching, and “a variety
of new network-oriented, security-related computer processing
capabilities”[^pai256] all fall within the telecommunications system
management exception[^pai257]—is in error. These capabilities serve the
interests of subscribers, not ISPs. For instance, DNS service doesn’t
facilitate an ISP’s “management . . . of a telecommunications system or
. . . service”; it allows a subscriber’s request for access to
particular content to be translated into an IP address. And in any case,
these capabilities are not telecommunications services unless the
underlying service itself is a telecommunications service—which, as
explained above, it is not.

Moreover, the notion that these capabilities might fall within the
management exception to the definition of information services would
have been unthinkable to the Congress that enacted the
Telecommunications Act. Had Internet access service been a basic
service, dominant carriers could have offered it (and all related
computer-processing functionality) outside the parameters of the
*Computer Inquiries*. Had Internet access service been a
telecommunications service, Bell operating companies could have offered
it themselves under the Modified Final Judgment. But I cannot find a
single suggestion that anyone in Congress, anyone at the FCC, anyone in
the courts, or anyone at all thought this was the law during the passage
of the Telecommunications Act.[^pai258] Statutory interpretation “must
be guided to a degree by common sense as to the manner in which Congress
is likely to delegate a policy decision of such economic and political
magnitude to an administrative agency.”[^pai259] And it is highly
unlikely that Congress drew upon historical sources to define a
statutory term, but then intended to give the FCC the discretion to
reach the exact opposite result.[^pai260]

Furthermore, given the increasing use of computer processing in the
networking, I do not see how “[c]hanged factual circumstances” could
lead the FCC to revisit the classification of Internet access
service.[^pai261] Although the FCC’s prior determinations rested on “a
factual record compiled over a decade ago,”[^pai262] the *Order* does
not identify any actual change.

*First*, the *Order* points to “consumer conduct”[^pai263] to show that
consumers use the Internet “today primarily as a conduit for reaching
modular content, applications, and services that are provided by
unaffiliated third parties.”[^pai264] Examples include 350–400 million
visits a day to Google and Yahoo!’s “popular alternatives to the email
services provided” by ISPs, Go Daddy providing “website hosting,” and
Apple, Dropbox, and Carbonite operating “‘cloud-based’
storage.”[^pai265]

But the availability and popularity of third-party content is hardly
new. Yahoo! Mail went online in 1997.[^pai266] HoTMaiL (the original
web-based email) launched in 1996.[^pai267] GeoCities, a website-hosting
service, launched in 1995 and was the third most-visited site on the web
in 1999.[^pai268] And Amazon.com was selling books, music, and videos
before the turn of the century, and began offering cloud-based Amazon
Web Services in 2002.[^pai269] Were the most successful sites back then
as large as the most successful sites today? Of course not. The number
of broadband Internet connections has skyrocketed from 4.3 million in
2000 (at speeds of 200 kbps) to 122 million (at speeds of 10
Mbps)[^pai270]—and a rising tide lifts all ships (or most, alas for
GeoCities).

And the FCC was certainly aware that consumers were visiting third-party
sites and using third-party applications in its previous classification
decisions. The *Cable Modem Order* itself noted that “cable modem
service subscribers, by ‘click-through’ access, may obtain many
functions from companies with whom the cable operator has not even a
contractual relationship. For example, a subscriber to Comcast’s cable
modem service may bypass that company’s web browser, proprietary
content, and e-mail. The subscriber is free to download and use instead,
for example, a web browser from Netscape, content from Fox News, and
e-mail in the form of Microsoft’s ‘Hotmail.’”[^pai271] So what has
changed? Nothing legally relevant. New automotive makes, models, and
functions have arrived since 2005; that doesn’t change the fact that
what we are doing is driving. LED bulbs are replacing incandescent bulbs
by the millions; that doesn’t change the fact that we’re using something
to light up a room. We access and use the capabilities that Internet
access service provides in new and novel ways; that doesn’t change the
fact that we’re accessing and using the Internet.

*Next*, the *Order* points to “broadband providers’ marketing and
pricing strategies.”[^pai272] Some “advertisements . . . emphasize
transmission speed as the predominant feature that characterizes
broadband Internet access service offerings,” such as AT&T’s claim that
it offers the “[n]ation’s most reliable 4G LTE network” with “speeds up
to 10x faster than 3G.”[^pai273] Others “link higher transmission speeds
and service reliability with enhanced access to the Internet at large,”
such as RCN’s claim that its “110 Mbps High-Speed Internet” offering is
“ideal for watching Netflix.”[^pai274] And ISPs “price and differentiate
their service offerings on the basis of the quality and quantity of data
transmission” with higher prices for faster speeds.[^pai275]

But again, this is nothing new. In 1999, Qwest asked customers “Could
your business use the bandwidth to change everything?” and advertised
service fast enough to access “every movie ever made in any language
anytime, day or night.”[^pai276] In 2001, Charter was offering “Internet
Light” (256 kbps service for \$24.95 per month) and “Residential
Classic” (1024 kbps for \$39.95 per month) as part of its “Charter
Pipeline” service.[^pai277] Even America Online in 1999 was advertising
how it “spent over \$1 billion to build the world’s largest high-speed
network—now with 56k, connections are faster than ever!”[^pai278]

And again, the FCC knew this when it decided the *Cable Modem Order*. In
the Commission’s *Second Broadband Deployment Report* in 2000, the FCC
noted the prices for broadband Internet access service, from “low-end
ADSL service” priced at \$39.95 to \$49.95 per month, to “[f]aster ADSL
services” at \$99.95 to \$179.95 per month, and “symmetric DSL . . .
well-suited to applications . . . such as videoconferencing” and priced
at \$150 to \$450 per month.[^pai279]

But more to the point, contemporary marketing doesn’t suggest that a
wheel’s been invented. Deploying last-mile facilities generally has long
been the biggest cost of broadband. As a result, the way in which
broadband providers have competed is product/service differentiation. So
of course broadband providers today advertise their speeds and their
prices—that’s a large part of what makes each distinct. But it doesn’t
mean that their last-mile transmission service *by itself* is what
they’re selling—I don’t know many consumers lining up for fast
transmission to a cable headend or central office but not actual access
to the Internet.

Lastly, the *Order* argues that “the predictive judgments on which the
Commission relied in the *Cable Modem Declaratory Ruling* anticipating
vibrant intermodal competition for fixed broadband cannot be reconciled
with current marketplace realities.”[^pai280] One problem is that this
argument doesn’t address the reclassification question at all. The
statute doesn’t classify a service based on the quantity of providers,
so it doesn’t matter whether there are 4,462 (like there are for
Internet access service) or just one (like there is for telegraph
service).

The greater problem is this assertion comes up empty too.[^pai281]
Alongside the high-speed broadband Internet access service offered by
cable operators and telephone companies, 98% of Americans now live in
areas covered by 4G LTE networks (*i.e.*, networks capable of delivering
12 Mbps mobile Internet access),[^pai282] wireless ISPs are using
unlicensed spectrum to offer new, cheaper services, and new entrants
like Google are bringing 1 Gbps service to areas around the country.
Indeed, it’s no wonder that the *Order* offers no factual support for
this assertion. To the contrary, the Commission itself has repeatedly
recognized that “current marketplace realities” reflect intermodal
competition[^pai283]—including in this very *Order*![^pai284]

In short, all the facts point in the same direction: Broadband Internet
access service is an information service.

*3. Broadband Internet Access Transmission Services*.—Nor can the
Commission seek refuge in the Commission’s past identification of a
transmission service as a component of broadband Internet access
service. Even if a broadband Internet access service provider could be
said to offer a separable transmission service (and it can’t), the
transmission service discussed in our precedent is very different from
the broadband Internet access service that the FCC classifies today.

Start with the precedent. In the *Advanced Services Order*, the
Commission examined digital subscriber line (DSL) technology, which
allowed “transmission of data over the copper loop at vastly higher
speeds than those used for voice telephony or analog data transmission”
between each “subscriber’s premises” and “the telephone company’s
central office.”[^pai285] For this service, a DSL access multiplexer
would direct the traffic onto a carrier’s packet-switched data network,
where it could then be routed to a “location selected by the customer”
like a “gateway to a . . . set of networks, like the Internet.”[^pai286]
The FCC then classified only the *last-mile transmission service*
between the end user and the ISP as a telecommunications service, while
observing that the Internet access service itself was still an
information service.[^pai287]

Similarly, the Commission identified “broadband Internet access
transmission service” as a possible telecommunications service in the
*Wireline Broadband Internet Access Services Order*.[^pai288] Again,
however, that service was the *last-mile transmission service* between
the end user and the ISP, and one the carrier could choose to offer as
common carriage or private carriage.[^pai289] And it is these last-mile
transmission services that many rural carriers still offer as a
telecommunications service (in large part in order to receive subsidies
from our legacy universal service program, which funds the regulated
costs of high-cost loops used to provide telecommunications
services).[^pai290]

It was this potential last-mile transmission service that was at issue
in the *Brand X* case. As the Commission reasoned, this service was not
a separable telecommunications service because the “consumer uses the
high-speed wire always in connection with the information-processing
capabilities provided by Internet access, and because the transmission
is a necessary component of Internet access.”[^pai291]

And it was this last-mile transmission service that Justice Scalia
identified in his dissent as being a telecommunications service. As he
put it: “Since . . . the broad-band connection between the customer’s
computer and the cable company’s computer-processing facilities[] is
downstream from the computer-processing facilities, there is no question
that it merely serves as a conduit for the information services that
have already been ‘assembled’ by the cable company in its capacity as
ISP.”[^pai292] He analogized to a pizzeria, arguing that a delivery
service was being offered *after* the pie was baked:

> If, for example, I call up a pizzeria and ask whether they offer
> delivery, both common sense and common “usage,” would prevent them
> from answering: “No, we do not offer delivery—but if you order a pizza
> from us, we’ll bake it for you and then bring it to your house.” The
> logical response to this would be something on the order of, “so, you
> *do* offer delivery.”[^pai293]

In contrast, consider the broadband Internet access service at issue in
this proceeding. It is not limited to the last-mile transmission service
between a customer and an ISP’s point of presence. It extends into the
ISP’s network all the way to “the exchange of traffic between a
last-mile broadband provider and connecting networks”[^pai294]—a scope
that necessarily extends onto the Internet’s backbone, since that’s
where many networks interconnect. And the *Order* reclassifies Internet
access service for “all providers of broadband Internet access
service . . . regardless of whether they lease or own the facilities
used to provide the service.”[^pai295]

To extend the pizzeria analogy, this *Order* does not only cover the
delivery of a baked pie. Instead, the *Order* reaches the exchange of
ingredients between a pizzeria and its suppliers, since all those
ingredients must be “delivered” to the pizzeria. To the extent a
pizzeria stores popular ingredients, that’s just an adjunct to the
delivery services that came before and afterwards. To the extent a
pizzeria processes the ingredients, that’s just an adjunct too.[^pai296]

In other words, when the *Order* claims that “[t]here is no disputing
that until 2005, Title II applied to the transmission component of DSL
service,”[^pai297] it is being intentionally misleading. The service
being reclassified today is different in kind from the last-mile
transmission services that were at issue in prior FCC orders. And so the
*Order*’s claim that it is just returning things to how they were ten
years ago is just wrong. In fact, the *Order* overturns three decades of
precedent—indeed, all the precedent we’ve ever had on the
subject.[^pai298]

*4. Heightened Scrutiny*.—Not only does the FCC lack the authority to
classify broadband Internet access service as a Title II
telecommunications service; it also, in any event, fails to supply a
reasoned basis for departing from decades of agency precedent that
determined it is an information service.[^pai299]

The agency faces one further obstacle in its quest to reclassify
broadband Internet access service: heightened judicial scrutiny. When an
agency’s “new policy rests upon factual findings that contradict those
which underlay its prior policy; or when its prior policy has engendered
serious reliance interests that must be taken into account,”[^pai300] an
agency decision to reverse course is subject to heightened or more
searching review.[^pai301] Both circumstances are present here.

*First*, as discussed above, the Commission’s decision to reclassify
broadband Internet access service rests upon a series of factual
findings that run directly contrary to those it made in all prior
classification decisions.

*Second*, if there ever could be a case where an agency has engendered
serious reliance interests, this is it. After the passage of the 1996
Telecommunications Act and the confirmation that Internet access service
was an information service in the *Stevens Report*, the FCC trumpeted
the multi-billion investments that AT&T, MCI, Qwest, Level 3, UUNet
Technologies, Sprint, and others were making in the Internet backbone,
noting that bandwidth on the backbone was doubling every four to six
months.[^pai302] Starting the year after the *Stevens Report*, broadband
providers have invested over \$1.125 *trillion* in their
networks.[^pai303] To suggest these providers did not rely on the FCC’s
decision not to subject Internet access services—broadband or
otherwise—to Title II is absurd.

Indeed, look just at the wireless industry as an example. In 2007, when
the Commission classified wireless broadband Internet access service as
an information service, FCC Chairman Kevin Martin stated that “[t]oday’s
classification eliminates unnecessary regulatory barriers for wireless
broadband Internet access service providers and will further encourage
investment and promote competition in the broadband market.”[^pai304] It
certainly did. Between that decision and now, wireless providers alone
have invested over \$175 billion.

Regardless of whether the heightened or more traditional standard
applies, the *Order* fails to offer an adequate basis for changing
course. Indeed, given that neither the material facts nor relevant laws
have changed, it is quite plain that the only reason the FCC is
departing from prior precedent is because the President told the agency
to do so.[^pai305] But courts have been quite clear that this is not a
lawful basis for shifting course, with the D.C. Circuit stating that “an
agency may not repudiate precedent simply to conform with a shifting
political mood.”[^pai306] As a result, the FCC’s attempt to offer a
reasoned basis for turning heel on decades of agency precedent falls far
short of meeting APA requirements.

### B.

Section 332 of the Communications Act independently bars the FCC from
reclassifying mobile broadband Internet access service as a Title II
telecommunications service.

In section 332, Congress added a mobile gloss onto the definition of
telecommunications service originally formulated for wireline carriers.
Pursuant to the statute, providers of “commercial mobile service” are
common carriers, and thus telecommunications carriers.[^pai307] By
contrast, providers of “private mobile service” are not.[^pai308]

In order to understand why mobile broadband Internet access service is a
private mobile service and thus cannot be classified as a Title II
service, it is necessary to begin by running through a number of
definitions. First, a “commercial mobile service,” in relevant part, is
any mobile service that “makes interconnected service
available.”[^pai309] “[I]nterconnected service,” in turn, means a
“service that is interconnected with the public switched
network”[^pai310] and “gives subscribers the capability to communicate
to or receive communication from all other users on the public switched
network.”[^pai311] “[P]ublic switched network,” for its part, means the
public switched telephone network, *i.e*., the “common carrier switched
network . . . that use[s] the North American Numbering Plan in
connection with the provision of switched services.”[^pai312] And
“private mobile service” is the reverse of commercial mobile service:
“any mobile service . . . that is not a commercial mobile service or the
functional equivalent of a commercial mobile service.”[^pai313]

Given these definitions, it’s no surprise that the FCC back in 2007
classified mobile broadband Internet access service as a private mobile
service—and hence recognized that it could not be treated as a
common-carriage, telecommunications service.[^pai314] As the Commission
put it: “[M]obile wireless broadband Internet access service does not
fit within the definition of ‘commercial mobile service’ because it is
not an ‘interconnected service.’”[^pai315] That’s because it does not
interconnect with the public switched telephone network but instead a
different network—the Internet.[^pai316] The Commission reaffirmed that
finding four years later when it held that “commercial mobile data
service,” which, as relevant here, is the equivalent of retail mobile
Internet access service, “is not interconnected with the public switched
network.”[^pai317]

Courts have repeatedly confirmed this view. The D.C. Circuit in *Cellco*
explained that, “providers of ‘commercial mobile services,’ such as
wireless voice-telephone service, are common carriers, whereas providers
of other mobile services are exempt from common carrier
status.”[^pai318] The court recognized what it described as Section
332’s “statutory exclusion of mobile-internet providers from common
carrier status.”[^pai319] And it noted that, when read in conjunction
with the Communications Act’s separate prohibition on treating
information services providers as common carriers, mobile broadband
Internet access service providers are “statutorily immune, perhaps twice
over, from treatment as common carriers.”[^pai320] The D.C. Circuit in
*Verizon* put it even more bluntly: The “treatment of mobile broadband
providers as common carriers would violate section 332.”[^pai321]

This regulatory framework creates major problems for the task that
President Obama specifically assigned the Commission: reclassifying
mobile broadband Internet access service as a Title II
telecommunications service.[^pai322] And so the Commission only makes a
half-hearted attempt to work within it. In two short paragraphs, the
*Order* claims that because mobile broadband Internet access service
enables the use of VoIP and similar applications, it “gives subscribers
the capability to communicate with all NANP endpoints”[^pai323] and is
thus an interconnected service, a commercial mobile service, and a
telecommunications service.

But this isn’t a new argument—the Commission squarely addressed it and
rejected it seven years ago.[^pai324] A service is classified based on
its *own* functions and properties,[^pai325] and there is no question
that a subscriber to mobile broadband Internet access service, without
interconnected VoIP service, *cannot* reach the public switched
telephone network. In other words, interconnected VoIP service and
mobile broadband are distinct services,[^pai326] so while VoIP might be
an interconnected service, mobile broadband is not.[^pai327]

Today’s *Order* offers no reasoned basis for departing from these
precedents, nor for concluding that VoIP service and mobile broadband
Internet access service are now a single, unified service. Yes, mobile
users can now communicate with different types of networks; but they
could do that in 2007. Yes, there are more subscribers to mobile
broadband Internet access service now than in 2007; but that has nothing
at all to do with whether VoIP and mobile broadband are distinct
services. And while the FCC may assert that “changes in the marketplace
have increasingly blurred the distinction between services using NANP
numbers and those using public IP addresses,”[^pai328] that’s just an
*ipse dixit*; no consumer that I know types a phone number into a web
browser to make a call, and no one tries to dial a URL into their phone.

What is more, the *Order*’s attempted conflation makes no sense. If
mobile broadband Internet access service could lose its status as a
distinct service and blend into another merely because it enables access
to interconnected VoIP service, then it truly is a regulatory chameleon.
Is it a cable service because consumers can use apps to watch cable
programming? Is it a radio service because people can use apps to listen
to an FM station? Is it food delivery service because some apps let you
order pizza from your phone? Obviously not.

Implicitly recognizing these problems with its approach, the *Order*
next attempts to jettison the whole regulatory framework and replace it
with one far more amenable to the outcome it desires—first by redefining
the meaning of public switched network, next by redefining the meaning
of functional equivalence, and finally by summoning a “statutory
contradiction” into being. None of these attempts withstands scrutiny.

*1. Redefining the Meaning of the Public Switched Network.—*The
Commission’s first move is to broaden the definition of the public
switched network to include not only services that use the North
American Numbering Plan but also those that use “public IP
addresses.”[^pai329] In other words, the public switched network would
now encompass the Internet in addition to the traditional public
switched telephone network.

But that’s not what the statute allows. A “fundamental canon of
statutory construction is that, unless otherwise defined, words will be
interpreted as taking their ordinary, contemporary, common
meaning.”[^pai330] In the case of a term of art, that ordinary meaning
is determined based on common usage among those practiced in the art.

And in the years preceding the passage of section 332(d)(2), the FCC and
the courts repeatedly used the term “the public switched network” to
refer to the traditional, circuit-switched network that AT&T and local
exchange carriers had built to offer telephone service, *i.e*., the
public switched telephone network. In 1981, the Commission noted that
“the public switched network interconnects all telephones in the
country.”[^pai331] In 1982, the D.C. Circuit noted that wide area
telecommunications service “calls are switched onto the interstate long
distance telephone network, known as the *public switched network*, the
same network over which regular long distance calls travel.”[^pai332] In
1985, the Federal-State Joint Board on Separations noted that the “costs
involved in the provision of access to the public switched network[] are
assigned . . . on the same basis as . . . [t]he local loop used by
subscribers to access the switched telephone network.”[^pai333] And in
1992, the FCC characterized its cellular service policy as
“encourag[ing] the creation of a nationwide, seamless system,
interconnected with the public switched network so that cellular and
landline telephone customers can communicate with each other on a
universal basis.”[^pai334]

So it’s no wonder that when the FCC first defined “the public switched
network,” it expressly rejected calls to decouple that concept from the
traditional public switched telephone network. Commenters had asked the
Commission to broaden the scope of the term to include the then-emerging
“network of networks.”[^pai335] Still others teed up defining the term
to “include all networks.”[^pai336] But the Commission said no, and tied
its definition of the public switched network to “the traditional local
exchange or interexchange switched network.”[^pai337] In other words,
the agency recognized that “Congress intended [the term] to have its
established meaning,”[^pai338] which in this case means the public
switched telephone network—not the Internet.[^pai339]

In the 20 years since the FCC defined the term, Congress has amended the
Communications Act—and section 332—numerous times.[^pai340] On every
occasion, it has chosen not to disturb the Commission’s interpretation.
As the Supreme Court has explained, this “congressional failure to
revise or repeal the agency’s interpretation is persuasive evidence that
the interpretation is the one intended by Congress.”[^pai341]

And Congress itself has distinguished between “the public switched
network” on the one hand and the “public Internet” on the other. In the
Spectrum Act of 2012, for example, Congress assigned the First Responder
Network Authority certain responsibilities, including developing for
public safety users a “core network” that “provides connectivity” to
“the public Internet or the public switched network, or both.”[^pai342]
This provision makes clear that Congress knows the difference between
“the public switched network” and the “public Internet.” The Commission
must respect that distinction.[^pai343]

There’s another problem with the Commission’s attempt to expand the
definition of “the public switched network” to include the Internet:
Congress used the definite article “the” and the singular term “network”
in section 332(d)(2)—suggesting Congress was referring to a single,
integrated network. And the Commission followed that lead when it
defined interconnected service as giving “subscribers the capability to
communicate to or receive communication from *all other users* on the
public switched network.”[^pai344] Here, the *Order* impermissibly
attempts to define “the public switched network” to be two networks.
Furthermore, expanding the definition of the public switched network to
encompass two distinct networks—the public switched telephone network
and the public Internet—means that *no mobile service* would be
interconnected since no service offers interconnection with
substantially all of each network. For example, mobile voice service
would no longer be an interconnected service nor a commercial mobile
service nor a telecommunications service since it unquestionably does
not give consumers a way of dialing up websites. And so the one service
that everyone agrees Congress intended to be a commercial mobile service
would not be one.[^pai345]

In light of all this evidence that the term “the public switched
network” in section 332(d)(2) does not include the Internet, the
Commission’s contrary interpretation is neither reasonable nor credible.

How does the Commission respond? The *Order*’s primary argument is that
Congress “expressly delegated authority to the Commission to define the
term ‘public switched network,’” and that, in doing so, “Congress
expected the notion to evolve and therefore charged the Commission with
the continuing obligation to define it.”[^pai346] But that’s just
wishful thinking. Nothing in the text of section 332 nor in its
legislative history supports the view that Congress intended the term
“the public switched network” to be capable of such an amazing feat of
mutation that it could swallow today’s Internet.

The actual text makes that clear. The referenced delegation appears in
section 332’s definition of the term “interconnected service.”[^pai347]
It states: “the term ‘interconnected service’ means service that is
interconnected with the public switched network (as such terms are
defined by regulation by the Commission) or service for which a request
for interconnection is pending.”[^pai348]

This language simply cannot bear the weight the Commission places on it.
The idea that this limited interpretative authority means that the
Commission has the authority to redefine the traditional public switched
network as incorporating today’s Internet simply proves too much.
Surely, the FCC could not define the public switched network as
something that is not the public switched network, whether it be an
apple or a turnip. Even when Congress delegates interpretive authority
to an agency, that agency must abide by traditional norms of statutory
interpretation. So “[w]here Congress has established a clear line, the
agency cannot go beyond it; and where Congress has established an
ambiguous line, the agency can go no further than the ambiguity will
fairly allow.”[^pai349]

All this delegation recognizes is the uncontroversial notion that the
Commission has *some* authority to interpret the relevant terms. Indeed,
the Commission previously exercised that limited interpretive authority,
and that precedent undermines the Commission’s position here. In the
*CMRS Second Report and Order*, for example, the Commission defined “the
public switched network” as including those switched common carrier
services and networks that themselves interconnect with and are thus
part of the traditional public switched telephone network.[^pai350] In
doing so, the Commission rejected all calls to define the terms so
expansively as to include the Internet or otherwise fundamentally alter
them.[^pai351]

Relatedly, the *Order* suggests that the Commission’s decision in the
*CMRS Second Report and Order* to codify the term “the public switched
network,” rather than the “‘technologically based term ‘public switched
telephone network,’” supports the agency’s position today.[^pai352] But
this claim also misses the mark. The FCC in 1994 was not broadening the
scope of “the public switched network” beyond the traditional local
exchange or interexchange switched network. Instead, it was making clear
that when a provider offers a switched common carrier—yet,
non-telephone—service that nonetheless interconnects with the public
switched telephone network, that service cannot avoid treatment as a
commercial mobile service simply because it is not offering “telephone”
service.[^pai353] The Commission could have had any number of
non-“telephone” switched common carrier services or networks in mind.
This becomes quite plain when one reads this portion of the *CMRS Second
Report and Order* in context, including its statement that it was
adopting an “approach to interconnection with the public switched
network [that] is analogous to the one” it used previously.[^pai354]
Thus, this precedent undermines, rather than supports, the Commission’s
view that it can define the term “the public switched network” in a way
that includes services or networks that are not interconnected with the
traditional public switched telephone network.

Indeed, the Commission does not really dispute this point.[^pai355] The
FCC’s discretion to define non-telephone switched common carrier
services as part of the public switched network, when those services are
interconnected with the network, is of no relevance here because mobile
broadband Internet access is not such a service. As explained above—and
as the *Order* never seriously argues otherwise—mobile broadband
Internet access service itself is not a switched offering that
interconnects with the traditional public switched network.[^pai356]

In sum, it is clear that the Commission lacks authority to define the
public switched network as including the Internet.

*2. Redefining the Meaning of Functional Equivalent.—*Alternatively, the
Commission claims that it can classify mobile broadband Internet access
as a commercial mobile service by finding that it is the “functional
equivalent” of that service.[^pai357] But as the Commission’s own
decisions make clear, section 332(d)(3)’s functional equivalency
standard does not give the Commission nearly enough leeway to make that
determination. Indeed, the Commission does not even attempt to satisfy
the relevant standard. Instead, it invents an entirely new method of
determining functional equivalency that turns the statutory framework on
its head.

The Commission has an established framework for determining whether a
service is the functional equivalent of a commercial mobile
service.[^pai358] What is the first tenet of that framework? A mobile
service that does not meet the literal definition of a commercial mobile
service “is presumed to be a private mobile service.”[^pai359]

What is the one way that this presumption can be overcome? By showing,
through a petition-based process and specific allegations of fact
supported by affidavits, that the mobile service in question is the
functional equivalent of a commercial mobile radio service based on an
evaluation of a variety of factors, expressly including: “consumer
demand for the service to determine whether the service is closely
substitutable for a commercial mobile radio service; whether changes in
price for the service under examination, or for the comparable
commercial mobile radio service would prompt customers to change from
one service to the other; and market research information identifying
the targeted market for the service under review.”[^pai360]

So does the *Order* apply the required presumption when determining
whether mobile broadband Internet access service is the functional
equivalent of commercial mobile service? No. Does the *Order* evaluate
the required factors? No. Did the Commission provide APA notice before
jettisoning this required framework? Of course not.

And why does the Commission fail to do any of this? The answer to that
is clear. Because there are no facts in the record—let alone ones
supported by affidavit—that could overcome the presumption or otherwise
show that the two services are close substitutes. The Commission doesn’t
apply the law because the law prevents it from reaching the outcome
demanded by the White House.

While not disputing any of this directly, the *Order* suggests that the
two services are useful as substitutes because consumers of mobile
broadband Internet access service can use VoIP services to place calls
to the public switched telephone network.[^pai361] But at most, that
observation goes to whether VoIP services are the functional equivalent
of commercial mobile services. It has nothing to do with whether the
separate mobile broadband Internet access service is.[^pai362]

The fact that mobile broadband Internet access service does not meet the
functional equivalency test is not just some quirk in the law. The FCC
has been clear that, in light of Congress’s determinations in section
332, “very few mobile services that do not meet the definition of CMRS
will be a close substitute for a commercial mobile radio
service.”[^pai363] But the Commission’s new test for determining
functional equivalency, which consist of just one question—namely,
whether the new service “enables ubiquitous access to the vast majority
of the public”—completely eviscerates the statutory scheme.[^pai364]
Sure, it’s more efficient to ask just one question, rather than applying
the required framework. And it does make it easier to reach
predetermined outcomes. But it upends the statutory scheme Congress put
in place. And it’s also impermissible here because the Commission did
not provide notice that it might abandon that framework.

*3. Statutory Contradiction.—*Finally, the Commission trots out what it
says is an independent basis for reclassifying mobile broadband Internet
access as a section 332 commercial mobile service.[^pai365] The
Commission says that it must be able to reclassify the service because,
if it were otherwise, there would be a “statutory contradiction” between
section 332(d)(2), which prohibits the Commission from applying common
carrier requirements to private mobile services, and the Commission’s
decision today to treat mobile broadband Internet access service as a
telecommunications service subject to common carriage
requirements.[^pai366]

But this argument is just silly. The Commission is simply complaining
that it must be able to interpret a statutory provision one way because
otherwise it will not able to interpret a second statutory provision as
it would like. It is like saying that we must call all dogs “cats”
because, if we did not, we could not declare dogs to be feline. Any
contradiction here does not lie with the statute. Rather, it is the
product of the Commission’s attempt to twist the statutory language into
a pretzel in order to advance a preferred policy outcome. But no matter
how the Commission tries to manipulate the statute, one fact remains:
Section 332 prevents the Commission from treating providers of mobile
broadband Internet access service as providers of telecommunications
services subject to common carriage requirements.[^pai367]

### C.

The Commission also relies on section 706 of the Telecommunications Act,
claiming that Congress expressly delegated authority to the FCC through
this provision.[^pai368] This is simply wrong. The text, statutory
structure, and legislative history all make clear that Congress intended
section 706 to be hortatory—not delegatory—in nature.

In pertinent part, subsections (a) and (b) of section 706 read:

> \(a) . . . The Commission and each State commission with regulatory
> jurisdiction over telecommunications services shall encourage the
> deployment on a reasonable and timely basis of advanced
> telecommunications capability to all Americans . . . by utilizing . . .
> price cap regulation, regulatory forbearance, measures that promote
> competition in the local telecommunications market, or other regulating
> methods that remove barriers to infrastructure investment.
>
> (b) . . . If the Commission’s determination [of whether advanced
> telecommunications capability is being deployed to all Americans in a
> reasonable and timely fashion] is negative, it shall take immediate
> action to accelerate deployment of such capability by removing
> barriers to infrastructure investment and by promoting competition in
> the telecommunications market.[^pai369]

Although each of these subsections suggests a call to action (“shall
encourage,” “shall take immediate action”), neither reads like nor is a
delegation of authority. *For one*, neither subsection expressly
authorizes the FCC to engage in rulemaking. Congress knows how to confer
such authority on the FCC and has done so repeatedly: It has delegated
rulemaking authority to the FCC over both specific provisions of the
Communications Act (*e.g.*, “[t]he Commission shall prescribe
regulations to implement the requirements of this subsection”[^pai370]
or “the Commission shall complete all actions necessary to establish
regulations to implement the requirements of this section”[^pai371]),
and it has done so more generally (*e.g*., “[t]he Commission[] may
prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary in the public
interest to carry out the provisions of th[e Communications]
Act”[^pai372]). Congress did not do either in section 706.

*For another*, neither subsection expressly authorizes the FCC to
prescribe or proscribe the conduct of any party. Again, Congress knows
how to empower the Commission to prescribe conduct (*e.g.*, “the
Commission is authorized and empowered to determine and prescribe what
will be the just and reasonable charge”[^pai373]) and to proscribe
conduct (*e.g.*, “the Commission is authorized and empowered . . . to
make an order that the carrier or carriers shall cease and
desist”[^pai374]). And again, Congress has repeatedly empowered the FCC
to direct the conduct of particular parties (*e.g.*, “[t]he Commission
may at any time require any such carrier to file with the Commission an
inventory of all or of any part of the property owned or used by said
carrier,”[^pai375] or “the Commission shall have the power to require by
subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses”[^pai376]). Congress
did not do any of this in section 706.

*For yet another*, neither subsection expressly authorizes the FCC to
enforce compliance by ordering payment for noncompliance. Where Congress
has authorized the Commission to impose liability it has always done so
clearly: For forfeitures, the Communications Act directs that “[a]ny
person who is determined by the Commission . . . to have . . . failed to
comply with any of the provisions of this Act . . . shall be liable to
the United States for a forfeiture penalty”[^pai377] and “[t]he amount
of such forfeiture penalty shall be assessed by the Commission . . . by
written notice.”[^pai378] And for other liabilities, the Communications
Act directs that “the Commission shall make an order directing the
carrier to pay to the complainant the sum to which he is
entitled.”[^pai379]

The lack of express authority to issue rules, order conduct, or enforce
compliance should be unsurprising, however, since section 706’s
subsections lay out precisely *how* Congress expected the FCC to
“encourage . . . deployment” and “take action”: Congress expected the
FCC to use the authority it had given the agency elsewhere. The FCC
already had the authority to adopt “price cap regulation” since it had
started converting carriers from rate-of-return regulation to price-cap
regulation in the early 1990s.[^pai380] The Telecommunications Act
established the FCC’s “regulatory forbearance” authority.[^pai381] The
Telecommunications Act also authorized the FCC to “remove barriers to
infrastructure investment,” specifically barriers to entry created by
state or local laws,[^pai382] and instructed it to identify and
eliminate market entry barriers.[^pai383] And as for “promoting
competition in the telecommunications market,” the Telecommunications
Act added a whole second part to Title II of the Communications Act,
titling it “Development of Competitive Markets.”[^pai384] In other
words, Congress did in fact “invest[] the Commission with the statutory
authority to carry out those acts” described in section 706[^pai385]—it
just did so through provisions other than section 706.

The structure of federal law confirms this reading. Although Congress
directed that many provisions of the Telecommunications Act be inserted
into the Communications Act,[^pai386] section 706 was not one of them.
Instead, it was left as a freestanding provision of federal
law.[^pai387] As such, the provisions of the Communications Act that
grant rulemaking authority “under this Act” (like section 201(b)), that
grant prescription-and-proscription authority “[f]or purposes of this
Act” (like section 409(e)), and that grant enforcement authority for
violations of “this Act” (like section 503) simply do not apply to
section 706 of the Telecommunications Act. Indeed, the so-called
subject-matter jurisdiction of the FCC under section 2 applies, by its
own terms, only to “provisions of this Act”[^pai388]—and so the “most
important[]” limit the *Verizon* court thought applied to section 706
does not in fact exist.[^pai389] In other words, the statutory
superstructure that normally undergirds Commission action just does not
exist for section 706 of the Telecommunications Act.

What is more, reading section 706 as a grant of authority outside the
bounds of the Communications Act yields absurd results. As the
Commission recognized in the *Advanced Services Order* with respect to
“regulatory forbearance,” reading section 706 as an “independent grant
of authority . . . would allow us to forbear from applying” certain
provisions in the Act even when section 10 would not let us do
so.[^pai390] That same logic applies to every “regulating method”
specified in section 706. If Congress had intended to grant the FCC
almost limitless authority for “price cap regulation,” “removing
barriers,” or “promoting competition,” what was the point of specifying
limited authority in the Telecommunications Act’s actual amendments to
the Communications Act?[^pai391]

And the problems proliferate as you dig into each subsection. Subsection
(a) is directed not just at the FCC but also to “each State commission
with regulatory jurisdiction over telecommunications services.”[^pai392]
So whatever authority subsection (a) grants the FCC, it also grants
state commissions. Such coterminous authority is a statutory oddity to
say the least. The Communications Act draws lines between interstate and
intrastate regulatory authority.[^pai393] It empowers States to act but
reserves authority for the FCC when they fail to do so.[^pai394] It
authorizes the FCC to preempt state authority.[^pai395] And it even
authorizes States to preempt the FCC.[^pai396] But nowhere does the
Communications Act contemplate state action coterminous with, or even at
cross-purposes with, the FCC. And it is strange to think that a state
commission could forbear from the federal statutory scheme or price
regulate broadband Internet access service so long as it thought doing
so would encourage broadband deployment.

Perhaps recognizing the problems such a reading would create, the
*Order* does not read the authority of state commissions this way—far
from it. Instead, the *Order* suggests that States cannot regulate
broadband Internet access service because that service is
“jurisdictionally interstate for regulatory purposes”[^pai397] and that
the Commission will preempt States that impose “obligations on broadband
service that are inconsistent with the carefully tailored regulatory
scheme.”[^pai398] In other words, the *Order* seems to suggest that
section 706(a) gives state commissions no authority over broadband (or
“advanced telecommunications capability” to use the statutory term) at
all![^pai399] But the plain text of the statute does not permit the
Commission to have it both ways and invent a scheme that has no basis in
the text of the statute. Either subsection (a) delegates authority to
the FCC and the state commissions or it does not.

Subsection (b) creates other problems. That subsection is triggered only
if the FCC determines that broadband is not being reasonably and timely
deployed to all Americans in its annual report. So what happens when the
determination is affirmative? Poof—it’s gone.

The consequences of such a light-switch delegation of authority are hard
to fathom. One would assume that once the delegation switched off, any
adjudications or enforcement actions being taken by the FCC under that
subsection would have to be dismissed, since we’d have lost the
authority to prosecute them. But if we’ve preempted a state law using
subsection (b), would it still remain preempted? If we’ve forborne from
federal law using subsection (b), would we then need to start enforcing
it again? Or if we’ve adopted rules using subsection (b), would they
remain on the books—unenforceable—until a negative determination is
again reached? Could we even repeal rules passed using subsection (b)
during a period in which subsection (b) has not been triggered? And how
would our authority change if, as happened last year, the FCC failed to
issue a timely determination under section 706(b)?

Unsurprisingly, the *Order* does not attempt to answer these
questions.[^pai400] Nor could it. Absurd results lie behind every
possible answer premised on subsection (b) being an independent grant of
authority.

Lastly, the history of section 706 confirms its hortatory nature. For
years after 1998’s *Advanced Services Order*, the Commission
consistently interpreted the section to direct the agency to “use, among
other authority, our forbearance authority under section 10(a) to
encourage the deployment of advanced services.”[^pai401] And so the
Commission has consulted section 706 in resolving one forbearance
petition[^pai402] after another[^pai403] after another.[^pai404] The
Commission has also looked to section 706 when employing its authorities
under the Communications Act to promote local competition[^pai405] and
to remove barriers to infrastructure investment (such as the
Commission’s authority over pole attachments).[^pai406] In other words,
our own history shows that we can meet section 706’s goals without
relying on it as an independent grant of authority.

Section 706’s legislative history clinches the point. Recall that the
*Verizon* court looked to the Senate Report’s description of the
provision as a “necessary fail-safe to ensure that the bill achieves its
intended infrastructure objective.”[^pai407] That was a mistake because
the provision described in the Senate Report was *not* the section 706
that Congress enacted. When the Senate passed in 1995 the bill that
became the Telecommunications Act of 1996, that legislation contained a
precursor to section 706(b) that authorized the FCC to “preempt State
commissions that fail to act to ensure [the] availability [of advanced
telecommunications capability to all Americans].”[^pai408] In other
words, the Senate version would have let the FCC step into the shoes of
the state commissions and exercise their authority under federal law if
they failed to act. That’s a “fail-safe.” But the enacted version
contained, as the Conference Report dryly put it, “a modification” to
that section: This preemptory language was excised.[^pai409] In other
words, Congress contemplated giving the FCC fail-safe authority in
section 706, but then expressly decided not to do so.

Whether one looks at the statute’s text, structure, or history, only one
conclusion is possible: Congress did not delegate substantive authority
to the FCC in section 706 of the Telecommunications Act. Instead, that
statutory provision is a deregulatory admonition. Accordingly, the
agency’s attempt to adopt these Part 8 rules under section 706 must
fail.

### D.

The forbearance section of the *Order* most clearly reveals that the
Commission’s decision today is driven neither by the law nor the facts
but rather by the need to reach certain predetermined policy outcomes.
Before the forbearance section, the Commission paints a dark and dreary
portrait of the broadband marketplace. It is one where broadband
providers “hold all the tools necessary to deceive consumers, degrade
content, or disfavor the content that they don’t like.”[^pai410] It is
one where consumers largely have no “meaningful alternative broadband
options,” and “45 percent of households have only single provider option
for these services.”[^pai411]

After reading such bleak pronouncements, anyone familiar with the
Commission’s forbearance precedents and the Act’s statutory forbearance
framework would approach the forbearance section with a sense for
foreboding. How is the Commission possibly going to grant the amount of
forbearance promised earlier in the document? How can it create a “Title
II tailored for the 21^st^ century”?[^pai412] The answer? By inventing
out of whole cloth a new method of conducting a forbearance analysis
that bears little resemblance to either the terms of the Act or the
Commission’s precedents.

Relying on dicta from the D.C. Circuit, the *Order* claims
“‘significant, albeit not unfettered, authority and discretion to settle
on the best regulatory or deregulatory approach to broadband.’”[^pai413]
Exercising that apparent discretion, the *Order* first labels a bevy of
Title II requirements the “core broadband Internet access service
requirements” and applies them to the service. It then “grant[s]
extensive forbearance” from other Title II requirements based on a
predictive judgment, but it does so without ever finding that there is
competition sufficient to ensure just and reasonable rates and
practices.[^pai414] That is not what the law allows.

In section 10, Congress set forth the three-part test for forbearance.
First, we must find that “enforcement of [a] regulation or provision [of
the Act] is not necessary to ensure that the charges, practices,
classifications, or regulations . . . are just and reasonable and are
not unjustly or unreasonably discriminatory.”[^pai415] Next, we must
find that “enforcement of such regulation or provision is not necessary
for the protection of consumers.”[^pai416] And finally, we must
“consider whether forbearance from enforcing the provision or regulation
will promote competitive market conditions, including the extent to
which such forbearance will enhance competition among providers of
telecommunications services,”[^pai417] and determine whether forbearance
is “consistent with the public interest.”[^pai418] Section 332(c)(1)
lays out largely the same criteria with respect to commercial mobile
services.[^pai419]

And there is no question how our precedents apply the statutory
forbearance standard. Take just the subset of our forbearance precedents
that involve forbearance from economic regulations—such as *ex ante*
rate regulation under section 201, tariffing under section 203, rate
prescription under section 205, interconnection, resale, and unbundling
regulation under section 251, or interconnection, resale, and unbundling
regulation under section 271. In *every* case where the Commission has
eliminated economic regulations, it has characterized market competition
as the determining factor in assessing whether forbearance was
appropriate.[^pai420] As the Commission said not so long ago: “[I]n the
context of its section 10(a)(1) analysis, ‘competition is the most
effective means of ensuring that . . . charges, practices,
classifications, and regulations . . . are just and reasonable, and not
unreasonably discriminatory.’”[^pai421]

So when the Commission forbore from applying economic regulations to
commercial mobile services in 1994 (under section 332(c)(1)(A)), it
concluded that “the most prudent approach for us to follow in reaching
decisions regarding forbearance in this Order must involve an
examination of the prevailing climate of competition.”[^pai422] That is
because “in a competitive market, market forces are generally sufficient
to ensure the lawfulness of rate levels, rate structures, and terms and
conditions of service set by carriers who lack market power.”[^pai423]
And so the FCC ultimately concluded that “the record does establish that
there is sufficient competition in this marketplace to justify
forbearance from tariffing requirements.”[^pai424]

And when the Commission used forbearance to detariff the long-distance
telephone market in 1996, market forces and competition lay at the
center of the analysis: “Just as we believe that competition is
sufficient to ensure that nondominant interexchange carriers’ charges
for interstate, domestic, interexchange services are just and
reasonable, and not unreasonably discriminatory, and to protect
consumers, we believe that competitive forces will ensure that
nondominant carriers’ non-price terms and conditions are
reasonable.”[^pai425]

And the Commission has analyzed competition *every time* it has granted
relief from economic regulations for dominant carriers. In the
*Qwest-Omaha Forbearance Order*, the Commission reviewed the local
market and determined that “sufficient facilities-based competition for
local exchange and exchange access services exists in certain of Qwest’s
Omaha MSA wire center service areas to justify forbearance
relief.”[^pai426] In the *ACS of Anchorage Dominance Forbearance Order*,
the Commission could only find “that enforcement of dominant carrier
rate-of-return regulations and certain related tariffing and pricing
rules is not necessary” “[b]ased on the significant competition ACS
faces for both mass market and enterprise switched access
services.”[^pai427] In the *Qwest-Terry Forbearance Order*, the
Commission noted the “showing of competition ensures that Qwest is
unable to implement charges, practices, classifications, or regulations
that are not just and reasonable or that are unjustly or unreasonably
discriminatory in this exchange.”[^pai428]

And the Commission has not hesitated to find that a lack of competition
makes forbearance from economic regulations inappropriate. In the
*Verizon 6 MSA Forbearance Order*, the Commission denied forbearance
because it found that “the evidence of competition in this record is
insufficient . . . to ensure that, in each of the 6 MSAs, charges,
practices, classifications, or regulations for or in connection with
those services are just and reasonable and are not unjustly or
unreasonably discriminatory.”[^pai429] In the *Qwest 4 MSA Forbearance
Order*, the Commission denied forbearance because “there is inadequate
evidence of facilities-based mass market competition and we are unable
to conclude from the evidence in the record that Qwest no longer holds a
significant market share of the services at issue.”[^pai430] And in the
*Qwest-Phoenix Forbearance Order*, the Commission denied forbearance
because the evidence “fails to demonstrate that there is sufficient
competition to ensure that, if we provide the requested relief, Qwest
will be unable to raise prices, discriminate unreasonably, or harm
consumers.”[^pai431]

What I cannot find—and what our precedent does not countenance—is any
instance where the FCC eliminated economic regulations without first
performing any market analysis or finding competition sufficient to
constrain anticompetitive pricing and behavior.[^pai432] It’s easy to
see why. Economic regulations are *designed* to ensure just and
reasonable rates and practices. Some do it directly by capping
rates,[^pai433] by requiring rates to be tariffed and approved by the
FCC,[^pai434] or by letting the Commission prescribe a rate for a
particular carrier.[^pai435] Others do it indirectly by generating
competition, such as through mandating resale or network element
unbundling.[^pai436] And so the FCC has not and, under the statute,
cannot forbear from *any* economic regulation on a whim or a lark.
Instead, it must identify *something else* that will constrain pricing,
and that something else has always been—and can only be—competition.

But in forbearing from economic regulations in today’s *Order*, the
Commission doesn’t just fail to find sufficient competition. It goes so
far as to find that competition is lacking in the market for broadband
Internet access service: Competition “appears to be limited in key
respects,”[^pai437] with consumers facing “high switching costs . . .
when seeking a new service,”[^pai438] and “broadband providers hav[ing]
significant bargaining power in negotiations with edge providers and end
users.”[^pai439] Indeed, “meaningful alternative broadband options may
be largely unavailable to many Americans . . . . When we look to the new
standard articulated in the Broadband Progress Report, . . . 45 percent
of households have only single provider option for these
services.”[^pai440] If that’s truly how the FCC sees the market, it
should go ahead and use the m-word—monopoly—and rely on the economic
regulations of the Communications Act that Congress designed to prevent
a monopolist (back in 1934, it was Ma Bell) from exercising market power
to the detriment of consumers. I do not see how the Commission could
possibly forbear from economic regulations while at the same time
finding that competition is so limited or non-existent. Yet the *Order*
does just that.

And lest there be any doubt that the Commission’s analysis here marks a
dramatic departure from that employed in prior forbearance decisions,
consider this. In just 109 paragraphs, the Commission purports to
analyze whether to forbear from *every* statutory provision and
regulation applicable to Title II services on a nationwide basis for
every broadband Internet service provider in the country.[^pai441] That
is substantially shorter than the 199 paragraphs than it took for the
Commission to analyze whether to forbear from applying a subset of Title
II economic regulations to a single company in just two markets: Omaha
(99 paragraphs) and Phoenix (100 paragraphs).[^pai442]

The *Order* offers several justifications for its approach; none are
convincing. *First*, it notes “the Commission has in the past granted
forbearance . . . where it found the application of other requirements
(rather than marketplace competition) adequate to satisfy the section
10(a) criteria.”[^pai443] And that’s true but only in a sense that’s not
relevant to today’s item.

The FCC has used forbearance to *make adjustments* to *ex ante* rate
regulation without looking to marketplace competition. For example, in
the cited *Iowa Telecom Forbearance Order*, the Commission granted
forbearance so that a dominant carrier could move from one form of *ex
ante* rate regulation (a price cap) to another (a forward-looking cost
study).[^pai444] In the cited *SMS/800 Refund Forbearance Order*, the
Commission granted forbearance so that several dominant carriers could
issue a one-time refund to their customers while leaving all other *ex
ante* rate regulation in place.[^pai445] And in the cited *USTelecom
Forbearance Order*, the Commission eliminated several accounting and
reporting requirements while otherwise leaving intact all *ex ante* rate
regulation and unbundling requirements.[^pai446]

And it’s true that the FCC has used forbearance to eliminate
*non-economic regulations* without looking to marketplace competition.
For example, in the cited *Foreign Ownership Forbearance Order*, the
Commission found “no evidence that the foreign ownership of a common
carrier licensee, in and of itself, is directly relevant” to whether
rates and practices are “just and reasonable and not unjustly or
unreasonably discriminatory.”[^pai447] And in the cited *USTelecom
Forbearance Order*, the Commission eliminated several noneconomic
regulations, such as a requirement to keep a paper copy of a
long-distance carrier’s “rates, terms, and conditions available in at
least one location during business hours.”[^pai448]

But merely adjusting economic regulations while keeping most in place or
eliminating noneconomic regulations—as the Commission did in each of
these cases—without conducting a competitive analysis is hardly the same
as what the *Order* purports to do. Namely, the *Order* eliminates
certain economic regulations entirely without finding competition
sufficient to meet the concerns of section 10(a)(1). *That* the
Commission has never done.

*Second*, the *Order* cites its “predictive judgment that the statutory
and regulatory requirements that remain”—particularly section 201 and
202 of the Act—“are sufficient” to ensure just and reasonable rates and
practices.[^pai449] What’s the basis for this predictive judgment? The
*Order* doesn’t say, although it goes out of its way to “reject
suggestions that market forces will be sufficient to ensure that
providers of broadband Internet access service and broadband subscriber
access service do not act in a manner contrary to the public
interest.”[^pai450]

This is precisely the opposite tack of previous FCC forbearance
decisions. The Commission has reserved the “regulatory backstop” of
sections 201 and 202 as a *supplement* to competition, not a replacement
for it. As the Commission’s *CMRS Second Report and Order* put it: Even
though “there is sufficient competition in this marketplace to justify
forbearance,” “the continued applicability of Sections 201, 202, and 208
will provide an important protection in the event there is a market
failure.”[^pai451] The *Order* itself acknowledges as much elsewhere:
“Of course, this regulatory backstop is not a substitute for robust
competition.”[^pai452] And yet the *Order* somehow concludes that
forbearance from economic regulations is warranted even though the
Commission claims that competition is lacking.

Nor does the Commission explain how “recent experience” informs its
predictive judgment.[^pai453] It would be one thing if the *Order*
surveyed existing rates and practices and concluded that present rates
and practices were just and reasonable—that could be a “practical
reference point” for considering the need for economic
regulation.[^pai454] But the *Order* doesn’t do that. If anything, it
specifically calls into question the reasonableness of common industry
practices like usage-based pricing, data allowances, and sponsored data
plans.[^pai455] And it says the record “demonstrates that [carriers]
have the ability to use terms of interconnection to disadvantage edge
providers and that consumers’ ability to respond to unjust or
unreasonable broadband provider practices are limited by switching
costs.”[^pai456] And yet the *Order* somehow concludes that forbearance
from economic regulations is warranted.

And the *Order* never attempts to explain how it can possibly ensure
just and reasonable rates and practices nationwide through its
case-by-case approach. The Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis
attached to the *Order* estimates that it may need to adjudicate
complaints against 4,462 separate broadband Internet access service
providers to ensure just and reasonable rates,[^pai457] each without the
presumption that marketplace competition will constrain anticompetitive
pricing and practices. And section 208(b)(1) gives the Commission only 5
months to resolve such complaints.[^pai458] It is simply infeasible that
our dedicated staff could process and investigate all such complaints in
the statutory time frame—and deploying economic regulations like *ex
ante* rate regulation is precisely how the FCC normally avoids this
practical problem. And yet the *Order* somehow concludes that
forbearance from economic regulations is warranted.

*Third*, the *Order* claims that the “overlay of section 706 of the
[Telecommunications] Act and our desire to proceed incrementally” enable
the Commission to forbear from large swaths of the Communications Act,
including its economic regulations, without a finding of sufficient
competition.[^pai459] But neither section 706 nor the Commission’s
desires allow it to ignore the plain terms of federal law.

For one, whatever direction section 706 gives to the Commission
regarding forbearance, it does not allow the FCC to forbear when the
section 10(a) criteria are not met—and specifically, the FCC may not
grant forbearance where it cannot be assured of the justness and
reasonableness of rates and practices. In every case where the agency
has incorporated section 706’s directive into its forbearance analysis
to repeal economic regulations, the FCC has first found sufficient
competition to meet section 10(a)(1)’s criterion.

So in the *Triennial Review Order*, the Commission found a sufficiently
“competitive environment” to forbear from uncertain unbundling
obligations[^pai460]—and the reviewing court agreed that “that robust
intermodal competition from cable providers . . . means that . . . mass
market consumers will still have the benefits of competition between
cable providers and ILECs.”[^pai461] In the *Qwest Enterprise
Forbearance Order* and the *Embarq/Frontier Enterprise Forbearance
Order*, the agency noted that “the marketplace generally appears highly
competitive” and found certain economic regulations “no longer
appropriate in light of the market conditions”[^pai462]—and the
reviewing court upheld the FCC’s findings on the “feasibility of
competitive self-deployment of special access lines—a development that
both helps justify and will be furthered by the FCC’s
decision.”[^pai463] And in the *Section 271 Forbearance Order*, the FCC
specifically called out “the importance of competition in ensuring just,
reasonable, and nondiscriminatory charges and practices for broadband
services”[^pai464]—and the reviewing court agreed that the carriers’
“secondary market position relative to cable internet providers tends to
mitigate the impact of forbearance on the state of competition in the
broadband market, especially where cable internet providers themselves
are not required to unbundle.”[^pai465]

To the extent the *Order* suggests otherwise (*e.g.*, arguing that
section 706 allows the Commission “to balance the future benefits of
encouraging broadband deployment against the short term impact from a
grant of forbearance”[^pai466]), it is wrong.[^pai467] And though the
*Order* cites the court reviewing the *Section 271 Forbearance Order*
for this proposition, the court was actually making a point about
*competition*. The court first noted: “the FCC concluded that any
short-term effects on competition are offset by the prospect of
additional intermodal competition and the benefits that forbearance will
provide: incentives for both ILECs and CLECs to invest in and deploy
broadband facilities, which will increase competition going forward and
thereby keep rates reasonable, benefit consumers, and serve the public
interest.”[^pai468] It then upheld the FCC’s conclusion: “[T]he agency
only needed to show that the positive short-term impact of unbundling
would be out-weighed by the longer-term positive impact that *not*
unbundling would have on rates, consumers, and the public interest. The
record here is up to the task.”[^pai469] In contrast, the *Order*
blithely recognizes that “the record . . . does not provide a strong
basis for concluding that the forbearance granted in this Order is
likely to directly impact the competitiveness of the
marketplace.”[^pai470]

For another, neither section 706 nor a desire to proceed incrementally
can give the FCC *carte blanche* to displace the reticulated economic
regulatory regime Congress mandated in favor of its own, largely
boundless discretion.[^pai471] Sure, the FCC might prefer the “tailored
framework” of section 201 over “compliance with interconnection under
section 251” because aspects of section 201 interconnection are “at the
Commission’s discretion” (*e.g.*, the Commission can order
through-routes), “rather than being subject to mandatory regulation
under section 251.”[^pai472] But such reasoning implies the FCC could
have pretty much ignored 90% of the Telecommunications Act—rejecting
Congress’s entire framework for opening local markets to
competition—based on the forbearance authority Congress gave the agency
in that same act. That makes no sense whatsoever.

The only sensible way to reconcile the framework of the
Telecommunications Act is to demand something more from the FCC than its
own “desire” before replacing the mandatory requirements of the law with
its own discretionary authority. That something more is today what is
always has been: a showing of marketplace competition.

Finally, I take issue with the *Order*’s repeated complaints about the
state of the record. To wit:

-   “Nor do commenters adequately explain how forbearance could be
    tailored . . . .”[^pai473]

-   “[C]ommenters . . . do not meaningfully explain what incremental
    benefit that would achieve . . . .”[^pai474]

-   “[C]ommenters do not meaningfully explain how these arguments impact
    the section 10 analysis here, given that the need to protect
    consumer privacy is not self-evidently linked to such marketplace
    considerations.”[^pai475]

-   “[C]ommenters do not meaningfully explain how these arguments impact
    the section 10 analysis here, given that the need to protect
    disability access is not self-evidently linked to such marketplace
    considerations.”[^pai476]

-   “[C]ommenters do not meaningfully explain how these arguments impact
    the section 10 analysis here, given that the need for regulated
    access to access to poles, ducts, conduit and rights-of-way is not
    self-evidently linked to such marketplace considerations.”[^pai477]

-   “[C]ommenters do not meaningfully explain how these arguments impact
    the section 10 analysis here, given that, even taken at face value,
    arguments based on such marketplace considerations do not purport to
    sufficiently address the policy concerns underlying section 254 and
    our universal service programs.”[^pai478]

-   “Commenters do not meaningfully explain why the transparency rule is
    inadequate, and thus their arguments do not persuade us to depart
    from our section 10(a) findings above in the case of section
    203.”[^pai479]

-   “Commenters have not explained why we should not find the
    protections of section 201(b) and antitrust law adequate here, as
    well.”[^pai480]

-   “[C]ommenters fail to demonstrate at this time that other,
    applicable requirements or protections are inadequate, for the
    reasons discussed below.”[^pai481]

-   “[C]omments contending that the Commission should not forbear as to
    that provision do not explain why the core broadband Internet access
    service requirements do not provide adequate protection at this
    time.”[^pai482]

-   “Given that decision [made elsewhere in the *Order*], commenters do
    not indicate what purpose section 204 still would serve, and we thus
    do not depart in this context from our overarching section 10(a)
    forbearance analysis above.”[^pai483]

-   “[T]he record here does not demonstrate specific concerns suggesting
    that Commission clarification of statutory terms as needed would be
    inadequate in this context.”[^pai484]

-   “Commenters do not indicate, nor does the record otherwise reveal,
    an administrable way for the Commission to grant the requested
    partial forbearance . . . .”[^pai485]

-   “Bare assertions that the record here is inadequate to justify
    forbearance from certain provisions from which we forbear above
    similarly are too conclusory to warrant deferring a decision to a
    future proceeding.”[^pai486]

Blaming the public rather than the agency itself for the state of the
record should shock the administrative conscience. It certainly takes
chutzpah. If commenters did not explain how forbearance could be
adequately tailored to meet the FCC’s needs, it’s because the FCC never
told commenters what its needs were (at least until this *Order*) nor
what forbearance was being contemplated (at least until Chairman
Wheeler’s Feb. 4, 2015 editorial) nor that forbearance was even
necessary (at least until President Obama’s Nov. 10, 2014 YouTube
announcement). If commenters did not foresee how the FCC would approach
forbearance or how certain forbearance decisions would impact other
forbearance decisions, how can we possibly blame them?

## IV.

At the beginning of this proceeding, I quoted Google’s former CEO, Eric
Schmidt, who once said: “The Internet is the first thing that humanity
has built that humanity doesn’t understand.”[^pai487] This proceeding
makes abundantly clear that the FCC still doesn’t get it.

But the American people clearly do. The threat to Internet freedom has
awakened a sleeping giant. And I am optimistic that we will look back on
today’s vote as an aberration, a temporary deviation from the bipartisan
path that has served us so well. I don’t know whether this plan will be
vacated by a court, reversed by Congress, or overturned by a future
Commission. But I do believe that its days are numbered.

For all of these reasons, I dissent.

[^pai1]: Communications Act of 1934, as amended, § 230(b)(2).

[^pai2]: The White House, Net Neutrality: President Obama’s Plan for a
    Free and Open Internet,
    https://web.archive.org/web/20150204034321/http://www.whitehouse.gov/net-neutrality
    (Nov. 10, 2014).

[^pai3]: The *Order* bans paid prioritization, and as the *Verizon*
    court put it: “In requiring that all edge providers receive this
    minimum level of access for free, these rules would appear on their
    face to impose per se common carrier obligations with respect to
    that minimum level of service.” *Verizon v. FCC*, 740 F.3d 623, 658
    (D.C. Cir. 2014). Setting a prospective rate of zero for a service
    is the very definition of *ex ante* rate regulation.

[^pai4]: *Order* at paras. 449–50.

[^pai5]: Communications Act § 201(a), (b).

[^pai6]: *Order* at para. 455.

[^pai7]: *See* Communications Act § 503(b)(5).

[^pai8]: *See* 47 C.F.R. § 1.89.

[^pai9]: *See* Communications Act § 503(b)(4).

[^pai10]: *See* Communications Act § 503(b).

[^pai11]: *See* Communications Act § 312(b).

[^pai12]: *See* 47 C.F.R. § 1.91.

[^pai13]: *See* Communications Act § 501.

[^pai14]: *Order* at paras. 441, 443, 447, 451, 452.

[^pai15]: *Order* at para. 452; *see* *Order* at para. 451 (“[W]e do not
    and cannot envision adopting new *ex ante* rate regulation of
    broadband Internet access service in the future”).

[^pai16]: *Order* at note 1352.

[^pai17]: *Order* at para. 330.

[^pai18]: *Order* at paras. 133–53.

[^pai19]: *Order* at paras. 152–53.

[^pai20]: *See*, *e.g*., Susan Crawford, Zero for Conduct, *Medium*
    (Jan. 7, 2015) (“Zero-rating . . . is absolutely inappropriate. It
    makes certain kinds of traffic exempt from any data cap at all, or
    creates a synthetic ‘online’ experience for users that isn’t the
    Internet. . . . [Z]ero rating is not just a competition issue. It’s
    also a human rights issue. Saying that walled gardens are “good
    enough” for poorer people is clearly destructive. . . . All
    compromise is based on give and take. But when it comes to
    fundamentals — including the earth-shaking idea of the Internet,
    which has made possible for the first time an open, global,
    interoperable platform for communications — there can be no
    compromise.”), *available at* http://bit.ly/14xVnUT.

[^pai21]: *Order* at para. 152.

[^pai22]: *Order* at para. 153.

[^pai23]: *Order* at paras. 139, 140, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145.

[^pai24]: Corynne McSherry, Electronic Frontier Foundation, Dear FCC:
    Rethink The Vague “General Conduct” Rule (Feb. 24, 2015), *available
    at* http://bit.ly/1AIJrKU; *see also* Letter from Corynne McSherry,
    Intellectual Property Director, Electronic Frontier Foundation, to
    Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 09-191, 14-28
    (Feb. 19, 2015) (“The Commission has an important role to play in
    promulgating ‘rules of the road’ for broadband, but that role should
    be narrow and firmly bounded. We fear the proposed ‘general conduct
    rule’ may meet neither criteria. Accordingly, if the Commission
    intends to adopt a ‘general conduct rule’ it should spell out, in
    advance, the contours and limits of that rule, and clarify that the
    rule shall be applied only in specific circumstances.”), *available
    at* http://go.usa.gov/3cP53.

[^pai25]: February 2015 Open Meeting Press Conference of Chairman Tom
    Wheeler (Feb. 26, 2015), *available at*
    http://www.fcc.gov/events/open-commission-meeting-february-2015
    (165:30-166:51).

[^pai26]: *Order* at para. 138.

[^pai27]: *See*, *e.g*., Nilay Patel, We won the internet back, *The
    Verge* (Feb. 4, 2015), *available at* http://bit.ly/1C17xB5.

[^pai28]: Communications Act § 201(a).

[^pai29]: *Order* at para. 526.

[^pai30]: *Order* at para. 462.

[^pai31]: *Order* at para. 5.

[^pai32]: *See, e.g.*, *Order* at note 1487.

[^pai33]: *Order* at paras. 497 (additional rate regulation and
    tariffing), 500 (same), 501 (same), 502 (same), 508 (administrative
    filing requirements and accounting standards), 510 (entry and exit
    regulation), 513 (last-mile unbundling and resale).

[^pai34]: *Order* at paras. 470, 488.

[^pai35]: *Order* at para. 451; *see also* *Order* at paras. 452, 508.

[^pai36]: *Order* at para. 488 (quoting Communications Act § 254(d)).

[^pai37]: *See, e.g.*, *Order* at para. 489 (“We therefore conclude that
    limited forbearance is warranted at the present time in order to
    allow the Commission to consider the issues presented based on a
    full record in that docket.”).

[^pai38]: *Order* at para. 490.

[^pai39]: *Order* at note 1471.

[^pai40]: *See*, *e.g*., Vermont Public Radio, Under New FCC Standard,
    30 Percent Of Vermonters Now Lack Broadband (Feb. 3, 2015) (“One of
    the things that would come along with [reclassification] is the
    ability to assess a universal service fee on broadband services. . .
    . If that happens, the money might be there to fund these higher
    speeds.”), *available at*
    http://digital.vpr.net/post/under-new-fcc-standard-30-percent-vermonters-now-lack-broadband.

[^pai41]: *Order* at para. 489.

[^pai42]: *Modernizing the E-Rate Program for Schools and Libraries*, WC
    Docket No. 13-184, Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed
    Rulemaking, 29 FCC Rcd 8870, 9042 (2014) (Dissenting Statement of
    Commissioner Ajit Pai); *see also* http://youtu.be/6LDko49R9YM.

[^pai43]: *Modernizing the E-Rate Program for Schools and Libraries;
    Connect America Fund*, WC Docket Nos. 13-184, 10-90, Second Report
    and Order and Order on Reconsideration, FCC 14-189 (rel. Dec. 19,
    2014) (Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Ajit Pai), *available
    at* http://go.usa.gov/3cpm4.

[^pai44]: In fact, broadband taxes may go up even further than this
    should the FCC revisit its decision to forbear from requiring
    contributions to the Telecommunications Relay Service (TRS) Fund.
    *See Order* at para. 470 (“[*F*]*or now* we do forbear in part from
    the application of TRS contribution obligations that otherwise would
    newly apply to broadband Internet access service”) (emphasis added).
    There, too, the fix may be in. *See id*. (“Applying new TRS
    contribution requirements on broadband Internet access potentially
    could spread the base of contributions to the TRS Fund, having the
    benefit of adding to the stability of the TRS Fund. Nevertheless,
    before taking any steps that would depart from the *status quo* in
    this regard, the Commission would like to assess the need for such
    additional funding, and the appropriate contribution level.”).

[^pai45]: Letter from Kim Keenan, President & Chief Executive Officer,
    MMTC, to the Honorable Tom Wheeler, Chairman, FCC, et al., GN Docket
    No. 14-28, at 3 (Feb. 18, 2015) (“Title II regulation, even when
    ostensibly administered with a lighter touch, will likely have
    unintended consequences on broadband adoption for people of color,
    the disabled, the economically disadvantaged, rural residents, and
    seniors.”), *available at*
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001030899.

[^pai46]: *See, e.g.*, ACA Comments at 60–66; Alcatel-Lucent Comments at
    2; AT&T Comments at 51–53; CenturyLink Comments at 5–6; Charter
    Comments at 13, 15–16; Cisco Comments at 27; Comcast Comments at
    46–50; Cox Comments at 34–36; CTIA Comments at 46–48; Ericsson
    Comments at 12; Frontier Comments at 2–4; Qualcomm Comments at 4–7;
    Verizon Comments at 57; Letter from Matthew A. Brill, Counsel for
    National Cable & Telecommunications Association, to Marlene H.
    Dortch, Secretary, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 10-127, at 3–5 (Dec.
    23, 2014); Letter from Patrick S. Brogan, USTelecom to Marlene
    Dortch, Secretary, FCC, GN Docket No. 14-28 (Nov. 19, 2014)
    (attaching Kevin A. Hassett & Robert J. Shapiro, Sonecon, The Impact
    of Title II Regulation of Internet Providers on Their Capital
    Investment (Nov. 2014)); Letter from Laurence Brett Glass, d/b/a
    LARIAT to Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary, FCC, GN Docket No. 14-28, at
    1 (Jan. 9, 2015); Letter from John Mayo, Exec. Director, Georgetown
    Center for Business and Public Policy to Marlene H. Dortch,
    Secretary, FCC, GN Docket No. 14-28 (Jan. 16, 2015) (attaching
    Anna-Maria Kovacs, Regulatory Uncertainty: The FCC’s Open Internet
    Docket (Jan. 2015)); Martin H. Thelle & Dr. Bruno Basalisco,
    Copenhagen Economics, Europe Can Catch Up With the US: A Contrast of
    Two Contrary Broadband Models (June 2013), *available at*
    http://bit.ly/1zJritJ.

[^pai47]: Christopher S. Yoo, U.S. vs. European Broadband Deployment:
    What Do the Data Say? Penn Law Center for Technology, Innovation and
    Competition, at 4–5, 13, 23 (June 2014), *available at*
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=7521285448; CISCO, VNI
    Mobile Forecast Highlights, 2014-2019 (compare the average mobile
    connection speed in the United States of 2,619 kbps with the 2,037
    kbps average mobile connection speed in Western Europe), *available
    at*
    http://www.cisco.com/assets/sol/sp/vni/forecast\_highlights\_mobile/index.html\#\~Country;
    *see also* Roger Entner, Spectrum Fuels Speed and Prosperity, Recon
    Analytics (Sep. 2014), *available at*
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60000870483; Letter from
    Scott K. Bergmann, Vice President – Regulatory Affairs, CTIA, to
    Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 10-127, 14-28
    (Feb. 10, 2015), *available at*
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001028379; Letter from
    Scott K. Bergmann, Vice President – Regulatory Affairs, CTIA, to
    Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 10-127, 14-28
    (Oct. 2, 2014), *available at*
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60000870404.

[^pai48]: Letter from Antonio López Istúriz-White MEP, Secretary
    General, European People’s Party, to the Editor, *Financial Times*
    (Feb. 22, 2015), *available at* http://on.ft.com/1DViF4r.

[^pai49]: *Order* at para. 138.

[^pai50]: *Order* at para. 410.

[^pai51]: Communications Act § 207.

[^pai52]: *Order* at para. 455 (noting the importance of the “doctrine
    of primary jurisdiction” but declining to forbear from applying
    section 207 to Internet service providers).

[^pai53]: *See, e.g.*, Letter from Steven F. Morris, Vice President and
    Associate General Counsel, National Cable & Telecommunications
    Association, GN Docket No. 14-28, WC Docket No. 07-245, at 2 (Jan.
    22, 2015), *available at* http://go.usa.gov/3cppB.

[^pai54]: *Order* at para. 482.

[^pai55]: Letter from Thomas Cohen & Edward A. Yorkgitis, Jr., Counsel
    for American Cable Association, to Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary,
    FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 10-127, 09-51, WC Docket No. 07-245, at 2
    (Jan. 20, 2015), *available at*
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001014745.

[^pai56]: Letter from James Assey, Executive Vice President, National
    Cable & Telecommunications Association, to Jonathan Sallet, General
    Counsel, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 10-127, at 2 (Dec. 2, 2014),
    *available at*
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60000989301.

[^pai57]: *Id*. at 3–4.

[^pai58]: *Order* at para. 430 (quoting Internet Tax Freedom Act §
    1101(a)(1), Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681, 2719 (1998), and citing
    Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015, Pub.
    L. No. 113-235, § 624, 128 Stat. 2130, 2377 (2014)).

[^pai59]: Letter from James Assey, Executive Vice President, National
    Cable & Telecommunications Association, to Jonathan Sallet, General
    Counsel, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 10-127, at 3 (Dec. 2, 2014).

[^pai60]: Hal Singer & Robert Litan, No Guarantees When It Comes to
    Telecom Fees, *Progressive Policy Institute Blog*, at FN5 (Dec. 16,
    2014) (estimating annual taxes and fees of \$11 billion assuming the
    Internet Tax Freedom Act is made permanent), *available at*
    http://bit.ly/1AcraGq; Robert Litan & Hal Singer, Outdated
    Regulations Will Make Consumers Pay More for Broadband, *Progressive
    Policy Institute Policy Brief*, at 1 (Dec. 1, 2014) (estimating
    annual taxes and fees of \$15 billion assuming the Internet Tax
    Freedom Act expires), *available at* http://bit.ly/1wcR7VX.

[^pai61]: Remarks of FCC Commissioner Ajit Pai at TechFreedom’s Forum on
    the 100th Anniversary of the Kingsbury Commitment (Dec. 19, 2013),
    *available at* http://go.usa.gov/3cKdk.

[^pai62]: Small Business Administration Office of Advocacy, Fact Sheet:
    Advocacy Submits Comments to the Federal Communications Commission
    regarding Small Business Engagement and Regulatory Flexibility Act
    Compliance, http://go.usa.gov/3cKdP (Sept. 25, 2014); Letter from
    Winslow L. Sargeant, Ph.D., Chief Counsel, Office of Advocacy, U.S.
    Small Business Administration, to Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary, FCC,
    GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 13-5, 12-353, WC Docket Nos. 05-25, 10-90,
    RM-10593 (Sept. 25, 2014), *available at* http://go.usa.gov/3cKsm.

[^pai63]: Testimony of Joe Portman, President and Founder, Alamo
    Broadband Inc., Elmendorf, Texas, at the Texas Forum on Internet
    Regulation, at 1 (Oct. 21, 2014), *available at*
    http://go.usa.gov/3cpPe.

[^pai64]: *Id.* at 2.

[^pai65]: *See* Wave Wireless, About Us,
    http://www.wavewls.com/about-us.html.

[^pai66]: Ray Nolting, Proposed regulations concern business, FCC
    commissioner, *Parsons Sun* (Feb. 21, 2015), *available at*
    http://bit.ly/1JOoplx.

[^pai67]: Letter from Dustin Surran, Aerux.com, Castle Rock, Colorado,
    Bryan Robinson, Affordable Internet Solutions, Waverly, Nebraska,
    and 140 other WISPs to the Honorable Thomas Wheeler, Chairman, FCC,
    GN Docket No. 14-28 (Feb. 19, 2015), *available at*
    http://go.usa.gov/3c8rH.

[^pai68]: Letter from Robert J. Dunker, Owner/President, Atwood Cable
    Systems, Inc., Atwood, Kansas, Richard A. Nowak, Owner/President,
    Bellaire TV Cable Company, Bellaire, Ohio, and 22 other small ISPs
    to the Honorable Thomas Wheeler, Chairman, FCC, GN Docket Nos.
    14-28, 10-127 (Feb. 17, 2015), *available at*
    http://go.usa.gov/3cpPw.

[^pai69]: Letter from Randy Darwin Tilk, Utility Manager, Alta Municipal
    Broadband Communications, Alta, Iowa, Loras Herrig, City
    Administrator, Bellevue Municipal Cable, Bellevue, Iowa, and 41
    other municipal ISPs to the Honorable Thomas Wheeler, Chairman, FCC,
    GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 10-127, at 1 (Feb. 10, 2015), *available at*
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001028442.

[^pai70]: *Id.* at 1.

[^pai71]: *Id.* at 2.

[^pai72]: \# *See* Editorial, Obama’s Favorite Internet Company, *The
    Wall Street Journal* (Feb. 5, 2015), *available at*
    http://on.wsj.com/1KnkoBh; Matthew Patane, Obama-touted Iowa utility
    balks at FCC Internet plan, *Des Moines Register* (Feb. 5, 2015),
    *available at* http://dmreg.co/1zg2VCS.

[^pai73]: Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council Comments at 2.

[^pai74]: National Black Chamber of Commerce et al. Comments at 2.

[^pai75]: Letter from Ross J. Lieberman, Senior Vice President of
    Government Affairs, American Cable Association, Lisa Schoenthaler,
    Vice President for Association Affairs Office of Rural/Small
    Systems, and Stephen E. Coran, Counsel for the Wireless Internet
    Service Providers Association, to the Honorable Tom Wheeler,
    Chairman, FCC, GN Docket No. 14-28, at 1 (Jan. 9, 2015), *available
    at* http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001012562.

[^pai76]: *Order* at para. 8.

[^pai77]: *Order* at para. 20.

[^pai78]: *Order* at para. 83.

[^pai79]: *Order* at para. 127.

[^pai80]: *Order* at para. 200.

[^pai81]: *Protecting & Promoting the Open Internet*, GN Docket No.
    14-28, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 29 FCC Rcd 5561, 5656 (2014)
    (*Notice*) (Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Ajit Pai),
    *available at* http://go.usa.gov/3cpEj.

[^pai82]: Gautham Nagesh & Brody Mullins, Net Neutrality: How White
    House Thwarted FCC Chief, *Wall Street Journal*, (Feb. 4, 2015),
    *available at* http://on.wsj.com/16FXTcH.

[^pai83]: *Id.*

[^pai84]: *Id.*; *see also* Gautham Nagesh, FCC ‘Net Neutrality’ Plan
    Calls for More Power Broadband: Chairman Tom Wheeler Considers
    Hybrid Approach to Internet Access, *Wall Street Journal* (Oct. 30,
    2014) (“Mr. Wheeler is close to settling on a hybrid approach,
    people close to the chairman say.”), *available at*
    http://on.wsj.com/1ES0YkT.

[^pai85]: *See* The Center For Rights, d/b/a Fight for the Future
    Education Fund, Form 990, Schedule A (2013–14) (self-characterizing
    group as “[a]n organization that normally receives a substantial
    part of its support from a governmental unit or the general public”
    and listing over \$1 million in taxpayer support between 2011 and
    2013).

[^pai86]: Kerry Picket, Obama’s Move to Regulate Internet Has Activists’
    “Fingerprints All Over It,” *The Daily Caller*, (Feb. 23, 2015),
    *available at* http://bit.ly/1zg6pFj.

[^pai87]: *Id.*

[^pai88]: *Id.*

[^pai89]: *See* The White House, Net Neutrality: President Obama’s Plan
    for a Free and Open Internet,
    https://web.archive.org/web/20150204034321/http://www.whitehouse.gov/net-neutrality
    (Nov. 10, 2014).

[^pai90]: *See, e.g.*, Letter from Austin C. Schlick, Director,
    Communications Law, Google Inc., to Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary,
    FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 10-127 (Feb. 20, 2015), *available at*
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001032150; Letter from
    Corynne McSherry, Intellectual Property Director, Electronic
    Frontier Foundation, to Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary, FCC, GN Docket
    Nos. 09-191, 14-28 (Feb. 19, 2015), *available at*
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=60001031536.

[^pai91]: The Progressive Policy Institute, Press Release, New Survey
    Finds Americans Skeptical that FCC Regulation of the Internet Will
    Be Helpful; Favor More Disclosure (Feb. 19, 2015), *available at*
    http://bit.ly/1FyPKoO.

[^pai92]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5569, para. 23 (citing *Verizon v.
    FCC*, 740 F.3d 623, 656–59 (D.C. Cir. 2014)).

[^pai93]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5569, para. 24.

[^pai94]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5647 (Statement of Chairman Tom
    Wheeler).

[^pai95]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5627 (Proposed Rule § 8.11(a)).

[^pai96]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5595, para. 95.

[^pai97]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5596, Section III.D.3 (capitalizations
    omitted); *see* *Notice* 29 FCC Rcd at 5596–98, paras. 97–104
    (discussing the proposed minimum-level-of-access requirement).

[^pai98]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5595, para. 95.

[^pai99]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5596, para. 97.

[^pai100]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5599–5600, para. 111.

[^pai101]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5599, para. 110.

[^pai102]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5602, para. 116.

[^pai103]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5602, para. 118.

[^pai104]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5599, Subpart III.E (capitalizations
    omitted); *see also* *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5602–10, paras. 116–41
    (discussing the proposed no-commercially-unreasonable-practices
    rule).

[^pai105]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5610, para. 142.

[^pai106]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5625, para. 183 (“Accordingly, IT IS
    ORDERED, pursuant to sections 1, 2, 4(i)–(j), 303 and 316 of the
    Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and section 706 of the
    Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §§ 151, 152,
    154(i)–(j), 303, 316, 1302, that this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
    IS ADOPTED.”). Title II of the Act consists of sections 201 through
    276, 47 U.S.C. §§ 201–276.

[^pai107]: *Compare* 47 C.F.R. Part 8 (“Authority: 47 U.S.C. secs. 151,
    152, 153, 154, 201, 218, 230, 251, 254, 256, 257, 301, 303, 304,
    307, 309, 316, 332, 403, 503, 522, 536, 548, 1302.”), *with*
    *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5626 (“Part 8 of Title 47 of the Code of
    Federal Regulations is amended to read as follows: . . . AUTHORITY:
    47 U.S.C. §§ 151, 152, 154(i)–(j), 303, 316, 1302.”). Note that
    section 706 of the Telecommunications Act has been unofficially
    codified at 47 U.S.C. § 1302.

[^pai108]: *See* *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5564, n.11; 5569, nn.42–48;
    5571, nn.58–59; 5574, n.88; 5576, nn.97–100; 5577, n.101; 5579, nn.
    111, 114; 5580, n.122; 5581, n.125; 5585, n.153; 5593, n.200; 5594,
    nn.206–12; 5595, n.213; 5596, nn.219, 221, 223; 5599, n.231; 5600,
    nn.236–37; 5601, nn.238–39, 241–42; 5602, nn.244–47; 5608, n.270;
    5610, n.282; 5612, nn.291–94; 5613, n.296; 5615, n.309.

[^pai109]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5626–27 (Appendix A: Proposed Rules).

[^pai110]: Although the general Internet conduct rule does claim that it
    should not be read to constitute common carriage *per se*, the
    *Order* concedes that the rule “represents our interpretation of
    these 201 and 202 obligations in the open Internet context,” *Order*
    at para. 295—which is to say that it too is premised on
    reclassification.

[^pai111]: *Order* at paras. 113–15.

[^pai112]: *Order* at para. 125.

[^pai113]: *Order* at para. 119.

[^pai114]: *Order* at paras. 133, 136.

[^pai115]: *Order* at para. 583.

[^pai116]: *Compare Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5626 (“Part 8 of Title 47 of
    the Code of Federal Regulations is amended to read as follows: . . .
    AUTHORITY: 47 U.S.C. §§ 151, 152, 154(i)–(j), 303, 316, 1302”),
    *with* *Order* at Appendix A (“The authority citation for part 8 is
    amended to read as follows: AUTHORITY: 47 U.S.C. §§ 151, 152, 153,
    154, 201, 202, 208, 218, 230, 251, 254, 256, 257, 301, 303, 304,
    307, 309, 316, 332, 403, 503, 522, 536, 548, 1302.”). The *Notice*
    made no mention whatsoever of sections 218, 251, 256, 257, 301, 304,
    307, 403, 503, 522, and 536.

[^pai117]: 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(2)–(3).

[^pai118]: *See, e.g.*, *Crawford v. FCC*, 417 F.3d 1289, 1295 (D.C.
    Cir. 2005).

[^pai119]: *Northeast Maryland Waste Disposal Authority v. EPA*, 358
    F.3d 936, 952 (D.C. Cir. 2004) (per curiam) (emphasis added)
    (internal quotation marks omitted); *see also Council Tree
    Communications v. FCC*, 619 F.3d 235, 256 (3d Cir. 2010) (“[E]ven if
    some sophisticated observers would have seen the connection between
    the stricter compliance that had been noticed and the lower
    standards eventually announced, the proper question under the APA
    was whether the agency had provided notice to all ‘interested
    parties.’ . . . [T]he inferential notice purportedly provided . . .
    did not satisfy that standard.” (quoting *Wagner Electric Corp. v.
    Volpe*, 466 F.2d 1013, 1019 (3d Cir. 1972))).

[^pai120]: *Long Island Care at Home, Ltd. v. Coke*, 551 U.S. 158, 174
    (2007).

[^pai121]: *Time Warner Cable Inc. v. FCC*, 729 F.3d 137, 170 (2d Cir.
    2013) (internal quotation marks omitted).

[^pai122]: *Horsehead Resource Development Co., Inc. v. Browner*, 16
    F.3d 1246, 1268 (D.C. Cir. 1994).

[^pai123]: *Order* at para. 539.

[^pai124]: *Compare, e.g.*, *Order* at para. 37 (“[O]ur forbearance
    approach results in over 700 codified rules being
    inapplicable . . . .”), *with* *Order* at para. 540 (claiming notice
    for such a result based on two sentences seeking general comment “on
    the extent to which forbearance from certain provisions of the Act
    or our rules would be justified”); *see also* *Order* at note 1671
    (arguing that the FCC used “slightly different wording to the same
    effect” when it had previously endorsed a “could have anticipated”
    standard).

[^pai125]: *Small Refiner Lead Phase-Down Task Force v. EPA*, 705 F.2d
    506, 547 (D.C. Cir. 1983).

[^pai126]: *National Black Media Coalition v. FCC*, 791 F.2d 1016, 1022
    (2d. Cir. 1986).

[^pai127]: As the *Order* points out, almost every section of the
    *Notice* included a generic paragraph seeking comment on
    alternatives. For example, the *Order* points to paragraph 96 of the
    *Notice*, which spends six sentences discussing possible
    alternatives for how to define a no-blocking rule and then one
    sentence asking commenters to “address the legal bases and theories,
    including Title II, that the Commission could rely on for such a
    no-blocking rule, and how different sources of authority might lead
    to different formulations of the no-blocking rule.” *Notice*, 29 FCC
    Rcd at 5595–96, para. 96 (cited by *Order* at note 1100). Such
    back-of-the-hand mentions are hardly sufficient to apprise
    commenters on the hows, the whats, and the whys of reclassification,
    and so I focus on the *Notice*’s most fulsome discussion instead.

[^pai128]: *Order* at para. 327 (quoting *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5563,
    para. 4) (footnotes omitted).

[^pai129]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5613–14, paras. 149–50 (footnotes
    omitted).

[^pai130]: *See* *Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service*, CC
    Docket No. 96-45, Report to Congress, 13 FCC Rcd 11501 (1998)
    (*Stevens Report*) (classifying Internet access service).

[^pai131]: *See* *Inquiry Concerning High-Speed Access to the Internet
    Over Cable & Other Facilities; Internet Over Cable Declaratory
    Ruling; Appropriate Regulatory Treatment for Broadband Access to the
    Internet Over Cable Facilities*, GN Docket No. 00-185, CS Docket No.
    02-52, Declaratory Ruling and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 17 FCC
    Rcd 4798 (2002) (*Cable Modem Order*) (classifying broadband
    Internet access service over cable systems), *aff’d sub nom. Nat’l
    Cable & Telecomms. Ass’n v. Brand X Internet Servs.*, 545 U.S. 967
    (2005).

[^pai132]: *See* *Appropriate Framework for Broadband Access to the
    Internet Over Wireline Facilities et al.*, CC Docket Nos. 02-33,
    01-337, 95-20, 98-10, WC Docket Nos. 04-242, 05-271, Report and
    Order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 20 FCC Rcd 14853 (2005)
    (*Wireline Broadband Internet Access Services Order*) (classifying
    broadband Internet access service over wireline facilities).

[^pai133]: *See* *United Power Line Council’s Petition for Declaratory
    Ruling Regarding the Classification of Broadband over Power Line
    Internet Access Service as an Information Service*, WC Docket No.
    06-10, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 21 FCC Rcd 13281 (2006)
    (classifying broadband Internet access service over power lines).

[^pai134]: *See* *Appropriate Regulatory Treatment for Broadband Access
    to the Internet Over Wireless Networks*, WT Docket No. 07-53,
    Declaratory Ruling, 22 FCC Rcd 5901 (2007) (*Wireless Broadband
    Internet Access Order*) (classifying broadband Internet access
    service over wireless networks).

[^pai135]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5610–12, paras. 143–47.

[^pai136]: *Appropriate Framework for Broadband Access to the Internet
    over Wireline Facilities; Universal Service Obligations of Broadband
    Providers*, CC Docket Nos. 02-33, 95-20, 98-10, Notice of Proposed
    Rulemaking, 17 FCC Rcd 3019 (2002).

[^pai137]: *Accord* *Council Tree Communications v. FCC*, 619 F.3d 235,
    254 (3d Cir. 2010) (holding that the FCC failed to provide APA
    notice for a rule after “find[ing] it instructive that the FCC had
    previously solicited broader comment on” the point covered by the
    rule “and in much more specific terms than it did here” and
    observing that “[t]he contrast could not be more stark”).

[^pai138]: *Connecticut Light & Power Co. v. Nuclear Regulatory
    Commission*, 673 F.2d 525, 533 (D.C. Cir. 1982).

[^pai139]: *Order* at paras. 306–433. Note that I exclude from this
    discussion any mention of forbearance, which I address below.

[^pai140]: *Order* at para. 330; *see also* *Order* at paras. 346–54.

[^pai141]: *Order* at paras. 366–75.

[^pai142]: *Order* at paras. 409–25.

[^pai143]: *Order* at paras. 430–33.

[^pai144]: *Order* at para. 330. To be sure, that last omission is
    understandable. The FCC could not have mentioned that point until
    just 22 days before this vote, when the agency decided to hike the
    standard for what qualifies as broadband Internet access service
    from 4 Mbps to 25 Mbps, excluding in one fell swoop all wireless and
    most wireline operators from the market. *Inquiry Concerning the
    Deployment of Advanced Telecommunications Capability to All
    Americans in a Reasonable and Timely Fashion, and Possible Steps to
    Accelerate Such Deployment Pursuant to Section 706 of the
    Telecommunications Act of 1996, as Amended by the Broadband Data
    Improvement Act*, GN Docket No. 14-126, 2015 Broadband Progress
    Report and Notice of Inquiry on Immediate Action to Accelerate
    Deployment, FCC 15-10 (rel. Feb. 4, 2015) (*2015 Broadband Progress
    Report*), *available at* http://go.usa.gov/3ay5d. Indeed, the agency
    still has not published that decision in the Federal Register and
    the public still has more than a month before the comment period
    closes on the accompanying notice of inquiry. *Id.* (establishing a
    deadline for initial comments of March 6, 2015, and a deadline for
    replies for April 6, 2015).

[^pai145]: Gautham Nagesh and Brody Mullins, Net Neutrality: How White
    House Thwarted FCC Chief, *The Wall Street Journal* (Feb. 4, 2015)
    (“In November, the White House’s top economic adviser dropped by the
    Federal Communications Commission with a heads-up for the agency’s
    chairman, Tom Wheeler. President Barack Obama was ready to unveil
    his vision for regulating high-speed Internet traffic. The specifics
    came four days later in an announcement that blindsided officials at
    the FCC.”), *available at* http://on.wsj.com/16FXTcH. It strains
    credulity to think otherwise; had the agency been on track to adopt
    the President’s plan all along, there would have been no need for
    him to “la[y] out a plan to do [Title II]” and (critically) “ask[]
    the FCC to implement it.” The White House, Net Neutrality: President
    Obama’s Plan for a Free and Open Internet,
    https://web.archive.org/web/20150204034321/http://www.whitehouse.gov/net-neutrality
    (Nov. 10, 2014).

[^pai146]: FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler’s Statement on President Barack
    Obama’s Statement Regarding Open Internet (Nov. 10, 2014),
    *available at*
    https://apps.fcc.gov/edocs\_public/attachmatch/DOC-330414A1.pdf.

[^pai147]: *See* Brian Fung, How Obama’s net neutrality comments undid
    weeks of FCC work, *Washington Post* (Nov. 14, 2014) (“Three people
    who met with [FCC Chairman Tom] Wheeler in the days after the
    president’s statement say he was ‘adamant’ that all options remain
    on the table—but they also walked away with the impression that the
    chairman is still not ready to give up on the agency’s hybrid
    proposal. ‘He certainly referred to the hybrid glowingly,’ said one
    official, who met with Wheeler late this week and spoke on condition
    of anonymity to speak freely about the gathering. ‘If we had to bet
    where he’s heading, it’s still the hybrid.’”), *available at*
    http://wapo.st/1alNQed.

[^pai148]: Indeed, the agency did not think it could prohibit paid
    prioritization—the *bête noire* of net neutrality proponents—under
    Title II before the President’s announcement. As the Chairman
    testified to Congress less than a week after the Commission adopted
    the Notice, “[t]here is nothing in Title II that prohibits paid
    prioritization.” Hearing before the Subcommittee on Communications
    and Technology of the United States House of Representatives
    Committee on Energy and Commerce, “Oversight of the Federal
    Communications Commission,” Video at 44:56 (May 20, 2014), available
    at http://go.usa.gov/3aUmY. And he was right: Title II makes clear
    that “different charges may be made for the different classes of
    communications.” Communications Act § 201(b). And there’s more than
    a century of precedent that common carriers may charge different
    rates for different services. *See, e.g.*, *Development of
    Operational, Technical and Spectrum Requirements for Meeting
    Federal, State and Local Public Safety Agency Communication
    Requirements Through the Year 2010; Establishment of Rules and
    Requirements for Priority Access Service*, WT Docket No. 96-86,
    Second Report and Order, 15 FCC Rcd 16720 (2000) (finding Priority
    Access Service, a wireless priority service for both governmental
    and non-government public safety personnel, “*prima facie* lawful”
    under section 202); *Access Charge Reform; Price Cap Performance
    Review for Local Exchange Carriers; Interexchange Carrier Purchases
    Of Switched Access Services Offered By Competitive Local Exchange
    Carriers; Petition of US West Communications, Inc. for Forbearance
    from Regulation as a Dominant Carrier in the Phoenix, Arizona MSA*,
    CC Docket Nos. 96-262, 94-1, 98-157, CCB/CPD File No. 98-63, 14 FCC
    Rcd 14221 (1999) (granting dominant carriers pricing flexibility or
    special access services, allowing both higher charges for faster
    connections as well as individualized pricing and customers
    discounts); *GTE Telephone Operating Companies Tariff F.C.C. No. 1
    et al.*, Transmittal Nos. 900, 102, 519, 621, 9 FCC Rcd 5758 (Common
    Carrier Bur. 1994) (approving tariffs for Government Emergency
    Telephone Service(GETS), a prioritized telephone service, and
    additional charges therefor); *see also, e.g.*, *Interstate Commerce
    Commission v. Baltimore & O.R. Co.*, 145 U.S. 263, 283–84 (1892)
    (noting that common carriers are “only bound to give the same terms
    to all persons alike under the same conditions and circumstances”
    and that “any fact which produces an inequality of condition and a
    change of circumstances justifies an inequality of charge”).

[^pai149]: The White House, Net Neutrality: President Obama’s Plan for a
    Free and Open Internet,
    https://web.archive.org/web/20150204034321/http://www.whitehouse.gov/net-neutrality
    (Nov. 10, 2014).

[^pai150]: *Id.* (“I believe the FCC should reclassify consumer
    broadband service under Title II of the Telecommunications
    Act . . . .”).

[^pai151]: *Id.* (“The rules I am asking for are simple, common-sense
    steps that reflect the Internet you and I use every day, and that
    some ISPs already observe. These bright-line rules include: No
    blocking. . . . No throttling. . . . No paid prioritization.”).

[^pai152]: Tom Wheeler, FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler: This Is How We Will
    Ensure Net Neutrality, *Wired*, http://wrd.cm/1EGifR4 (Feb. 4, 2015)
    (“[T]he time to settle the Net Neutrality question has arrived. This
    week, I will circulate to the members of the Federal Communications
    Commission (FCC) proposed new rules to preserve the internet as an
    open platform for innovation and free expression.”).

[^pai153]: *Id.* (“I am proposing that the FCC use its Title II
    authority to implement and enforce open internet protections.”).

[^pai154]: *Id.* (“These enforceable, bright-line rules will ban paid
    prioritization, and the blocking and throttling of lawful content
    and services.”).

[^pai155]: *Prometheus Radio Project v. FCC*, 652 F.3d 431, 450 (3d Cir.
    2011).

[^pai156]: *Id.* at 451.

[^pai157]: *See, e.g.*, Jesse Jackson Urges Wheeler Against Title II,
    *Communications Daily* (Nov. 19, 2014) (“Several involved in the net
    neutrality debate have said in recent days that they expect the
    agency, in light of Wheeler’s statement last week, to seek
    additional comments in the proceeding.”); Lydia Beyoud, Obama’s Call
    for Title II Reclassification Forces Rulemaking Delay, *Bloomberg
    BNA* (Nov. 12, 2014) (“Several sources said that [figuring out a way
    forward] could involve an additional public comment period, whether
    from a further notice of proposed rulemaking or through a public
    notice at the bureau level.”), *available at* http://bit.ly/17zHLcC;
    Laura Ryan, Brendan Sasso and Dustin Volz, What’s Next in the
    Never-Ending Net Neutrality Fight, *National Journal* (Nov. 11,
    2014) (“An FCC official said the chairman hasn’t decided yet whether
    he’ll need to issue a further notice of proposed rule-making before
    moving on to final rules.”), *available at* http://bit.ly/1AsB4EA;
    No December Vote: Obama Wants Title II; Wheeler Says There are
    Issues to Be Resolved, *Communications Daily* (Nov. 12, 2014)
    (“[S]ome industry attorneys said the agency may seek even more
    comments.”); *id.* (“Some industry attorneys said the commission may
    open up . . . [the] proceeding . . . to another round of comments to
    bolster the record for classification.”).

[^pai158]: Jesse Jackson Urges Wheeler Against Title II, *Communications
    Daily* (Nov. 19, 2014).

[^pai159]: *See, e.g.*, Mario Trujillo, Dems to FCC: ‘Time for action’
    on Web reclassification, *The Hill* (Dec. 18, 2014), *available at*
    http://bit.ly/1GwPOTF; *see also* No December Vote: Obama Wants
    Title II; Wheeler Says There are Issues to Be Resolved,
    *Communications Daily* (Nov. 12, 2014) (“Heartened by Obama’s
    statement, Title II advocates pressed the agency to quickly move
    ahead with approving net neutrality rules involving
    reclassification.”).

[^pai160]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5615–16, para. 153.

[^pai161]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5616, para. 155.

[^pai162]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5616, para. 154.

[^pai163]: *Prometheus Radio Project v. FCC*, 652 F.3d 431, 451 (3d Cir.
    2011).

[^pai164]: *See Order* at paras. 441 (sections 201 and 202); 453
    (sections 206, 207, 208, 209, 216, and 217); 463 (section 222); 469
    (section 225); 472 (sections 251(a)(2) and 255); 478 (section 224);
    481 (section 224(e)); 486 (sections 214(e) and 254); 521 (section
    276); 531 (section 257); 532 (section 230(c)); 533 (section 229);
    535–36 (sections 309(b) and (d)(1)).

[^pai165]: *See* *Order* at paras. 470 (section 225(d)(3)(B)); 488
    (section 254(d)’s first sentence); 497 (section 203); 505 (section
    204); 506 (section 205); 508 (sections 211, 213, 215, 218, 219,
    220); 509–12 (section 214 except for subsection (e)); 513 (section
    251 except for subsection (a)(2), section 256); 515 (section 258).
    The *Order* makes clear that forbearance from each of these
    provisions is only appropriate “at this time,” “for now,” or “on
    this record.”

[^pai166]: *See* *Order* at paras. 492 (sections 254(g), (k)); 507
    (section 212); 517–18 (sections 271, 272, 273, 274, 275); 519
    (sections 221, 259); 520 (sections 226, 227(c)(3), 227(e), 228,
    260).

[^pai167]: *See* *Order* at para. 522 (forbearing from applying the
    Commission’s truth-in-billing rules).

[^pai168]: *See* *Order* at paras. 472–74 (declining to forbear from the
    Commission’s rules implementing section 255 except “insofar as there
    is any conflict” with “sections 716–718 and our implementing
    rules”).

[^pai169]: *See* *Order* at para. 451 (forbearing from applying sections
    201 and 202 to the extent they would enable the Commission to
    “adopt[] new *ex ante* rate regulation . . . in the future”).

[^pai170]: *See* *Order* at para. 526 (committing “to commence in the
    near term a separate proceeding to revisit the data roaming
    obligations of MBIAS providers in light of our reclassification
    decisions today”).

[^pai171]: *Order* at paras. 434–536.

[^pai172]: To be fair, the *Order* really doesn’t make the rationale
    clearer for many of its decisions. At most, it claims in a footnote
    that the rationale for forbearance is to “protect and promote
    Internet openness.” *Order* at note 1673. But like beauty or a
    public interest standard, what that means is in the eye of the
    beholder. If notice and comment is to mean anything, commenters must
    be able to wrestle with a concrete rationale for action, not one so
    vague that no one could anticipate how it might be applied in any
    particular circumstance.

[^pai173]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5616, para. 154.

[^pai174]: *National Black Media Coalition v. FCC*, 791 F.2d 1016, 1023
    (2d Cir. 1986).

[^pai175]: For more on this novel rationale, *see* *infra* Section
    III.D.

[^pai176]: *See Environmental Integrity Project v. EPA*, 425 F.3d 992,
    996 (D.C. Cir. 2005) (alteration in original) (quoting *Kooritzky v.
    Reich*, 17 F.3d 1509, 1513 (D.C. Cir. 1994)).

[^pai177]: *See, e.g.*, *Lifeline and Link Up Reform and Modernization
    et al.*, WC Docket Nos. 11-42, 03-109, CC Docket No. 96-45, Notice
    of Proposed Rulemaking, 26 FCC Rcd 2770, 2862–64, paras. 303–09
    (2011) (seeking comment on forbearing from the Act’s facilities
    requirement for resellers that want to participate in the FCC’s
    Lifeline program since that requirement appeared only relevant to
    participants in the FCC’s high-cost program).

[^pai178]: *Implementation of Sections 3(n) and 332 of the
    Communications Act Regulatory Treatment of Mobile Services*, GN
    Docket No. 93-252, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 8 FCC Rcd 7988,
    7998–8001, paras. 49–68 (1993).

[^pai179]: *See* 47 C.F.R. § 1.54(a), (b), (e).

[^pai180]: *Petition to Establish Procedural Requirements to Govern
    Proceedings for Forbearance under Section 10 of the Communications
    Act of 1934, as Amended*, WC Docket No. 07-267, Report and Order, 24
    FCC Rcd 9543, 9550, para. 12 (2009).

[^pai181]: Letter from Earl Comstock et al., Counsel for Full Service
    Network and TruConnect, to Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary, FCC, GN
    Docket Nos. 10-127, 14-28, at 10 (Feb. 3, 2015), *available* *at*
    http://go.usa.gov/3aUDR.

[^pai182]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5582, para. 59.

[^pai183]: *Order* at para. 195; *see* *Order* at para. 206 (“To be
    clear, we are not applying the open Internet rules we adopt today to
    Internet traffic exchange.”).

[^pai184]: *Order* at para. 203.

[^pai185]: *Order* at para. 205.

[^pai186]: Communications Act § 201(a).

[^pai187]: Letter from Matthew A. Brill, Counsel for the National Cable
    & Telecommunications Association, to Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary,
    FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 10-127, at 8 (Jan. 14, 2015), *available
    at* http://go.usa.gov/3aUDF; *see id.* (“[T]he portions of the NPRM
    seeking comment on the application of Title II are focused on the
    potential reclassification of *retail* broadband Internet access
    service as a telecommunications service.”).

[^pai188]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5647 (Statement of Chairman Tom
    Wheeler).

[^pai189]: Communications Act § 5(a).

[^pai190]: *Order* at para. 206 (“[C]ertain regulatory consequences flow
    from the Commission’s classification of BIAS, including the traffic
    exchange component, as falling within the ‘telecommunications
    services’ definition in the Act.”).

[^pai191]: *See* *Order* at note 521 (“Internet traffic exchange is a
    component of broadband Internet access service, both of which meets
    the definition of ‘telecommunications service.’”).

[^pai192]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5581, para. 55.

[^pai193]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5582, para. 59 (quoting *Preserving
    the Open Internet; Broadband Industry Practices*, GN Docket No.
    09-191, WC Docket No. 07-52, Report and Order, 25 FCC Rcd 17905,
    17944, n.209 (2010); *id.* at 17933, n.150).

[^pai194]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5615, para. 151 (emphasis added).

[^pai195]: *Order* at para. 206.

[^pai196]: *Order* at para. 391; *see also* *Order* at Appendix A
    (amending the definition of “public switched network” in rule 20.3).

[^pai197]: Communications Act § 332(c)(2) (“A person engaged in the
    provision of a service that is a private mobile service shall not,
    insofar as such person is so engaged, be treated as a common carrier
    for any purpose under this Act . . . .”); Communications Act
    § 332(d)(3) (“[T]he term ‘private mobile service’ means any mobile
    service . . . that is not a commercial mobile service or the
    functional equivalent of a commercial mobile service . . . .”);
    Communications Act § 332(d)(1) (“[T]he term ‘commercial mobile
    service’ means any mobile service . . . that is provided for profit
    and makes interconnected service available”); Communications Act
    § 332(d)(2) (“[T]he term ‘interconnected service’ means service that
    is interconnected with the public switched network . . . .”).

[^pai198]: *Order* at para. 391.

[^pai199]: *Order* at paras. 391–99, 402 (applying the new definition).

[^pai200]: *See* *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5626–27 (Appendix A: Proposed
    Rules).

[^pai201]: *See* *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5614, para. 150.

[^pai202]: Vonage Comments at 43–44.

[^pai203]: *Small Refiner Lead Phase-Down Task Force v. EPA*, 705 F.2d
    506, 549 (D.C. Cir. 1983) (emphasis in original); *see also*
    *Prometheus Radio Project v. FCC*, 652 F.3d 431, 450 (3d Cir. 2011)
    (explaining that a proposal “not published in the Federal Register”
    expressing the views of a party but “not the Commission” does not
    satisfy the APA’s requirements).

[^pai204]: *See* *Order* at para. 391. The *Order* also points to
    various questions in the *2010 NOI*—but even that item did not
    propose a new definition for the public switched network and used
    the term only once in an utterly unrelated context. *See* *2010
    NOI*, 25 FCC Rcd at 7871, n.24. What is more, I do not see how the
    *Order* can credibly point to the *2010 NOI* for APA notice when it
    does not incorporate the record produced by that notice into this
    proceeding. *See* *Order* at page 1 (listing GN Docket No. 14-28
    (the docket of the *Notice*) but not GN 10-127 (the docket of the
    *2010 NOI*)). The Commission cannot have it both ways: Either the
    *2010 NOI* and its associated record is part of this proceeding (and
    the agency must address the full record against reclassification
    compiled therein) or it is not (and the agency cannot claim notice
    based on the *2010 NOI*).

[^pai205]: *See* *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5614, para. 149.

[^pai206]: *See* *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5616, para. 155.

[^pai207]: *See* *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5614, para. 150.

[^pai208]: *Council Tree Communications v. FCC*, 619 F.3d 235, 254 (3d
    Cir. 2010) (quoting *Shell Oil Co. v. EPA*, 950 F.2d 741, 751 (D.C.
    Cir.1991)).

[^pai209]: *See* *Order* at paras. 404, 406; *see also* *Order* at
    Appendix A (amending the definition of “commercial mobile radio
    service” to include mobile broadband Internet access service as a
    “functional equivalent” in rule 20.3).

[^pai210]: *See* *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5626–27 (Appendix A: Proposed
    Rules).

[^pai211]: *See* *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5614, para. 150.

[^pai212]: *See* 47 C.F.R. § 20.9(a)(14).

[^pai213]: *Compare* Letter from Scott Bergmann, Vice President –
    Regulatory Affairs, CTIA – The Wireless Association, to Marlene H.
    Dortch, Secretary, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 10-137 (Oct. 17,
    2014), *available at* http://go.usa.gov/3aUW9, *with* Wireline
    Competition Bureau Extends Deadline for Filing Reply Comments in the
    Open Internet and Framework for Broadband Internet Service
    Proceedings, GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 10-127, Public Notice, 29 FCC Rcd
    9714 (Wireline Comp. Bur. 2014) (extending the close of the comment
    cycle to September 15, 2014).

[^pai214]: *Small Refiner Lead Phase-Down Task Force v. EPA*, 705 F.2d
    506, 549 (D.C. Cir. 1983).

[^pai215]: The *Order* specifically relies on a conversation the FCC’s
    general counsel had with Public Knowledge for its contention that
    “Interested parties should have reasonably foreseen and in fact were
    aware that the Commission would analyze the functional equivalence
    of mobile broadband . . . . Indeed, several parties have submitted
    comments on this question.” *Order* at para. 406.

[^pai216]: Communications Act § 332(c)(2) (“A person engaged in the
    provision of a service that is a private mobile service shall not,
    insofar as such person is so engaged, be treated as a common carrier
    for any purpose under this Act . . . .”).

[^pai217]: Communications Act § 3(24).

[^pai218]: *Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA*, 134 S. Ct. 2427, 2442
    (2014) (“Thus, an agency interpretation that is inconsistent with
    the design and structure of the statute as a whole . . . does not
    merit deference.” (internal quotation marks and brackets omitted)).

[^pai219]: Communications Act § 230(b)(2) (emphasis added); *see also*
    Communications Act § 230(a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (b)(1), (b)(3) (all
    using the phrase “Internet and other interactive computer
    services”).

[^pai220]: Communications Act § 230(f)(2) (emphasis added). To respond,
    as the Commission does, that section 230 does not “classify
    broadband Internet access service, as we define that term herein, as
    an information service” misses the point. *Order* at para. 386. When
    Congress adopted section 230 as part of the Telecommunications Act
    of 1996, of course it did not anticipate the precise definition the
    FCC would adopt almost 20 years later—but it could and did broadly
    define “interactive computer service” to envelop “*any*” information
    service provider, and “specifically a service or system that
    provides access to the Internet.” Communications Act § 230(f)(2)
    (emphasis added). The *Order* cannot and does not dispute that
    Internet service providers squarely fall within the definition. At
    most, it argues that other services also fall within that
    definition, *Order* at note 1097, which seems rather obvious given
    how broadly the statute is written.

[^pai221]: *See* *Stevens Report*, 13 FCC Rcd at 11501; *Cable Modem
    Order*, 17 FCC Rcd at 4798; *Wireline Broadband Internet Access
    Services Order*, 20 FCC Rcd at 14853; *BPL Internet Access Order*,
    21 FCC Rcd at 13281; *Wireless Broadband Internet Access Order*, 22
    FCC Rcd at 5901.

[^pai222]: *National Cable & Telecommunications Ass’n v. Brand X
    Internet Services*, 545 U.S. 967, 987 (2005).

[^pai223]: Although the *Order* now claims the *Stevens Report* was “not
    a binding Commission order,” *Order* at para. 315, our precedent has
    repeatedly treated it as such. *See, e.g.*, *Communications
    Assistance for Law Enforcement Act*, CC Docket No. 97-213, Second
    Report and Order, 15 FCC Rcd 7105, 7120, n.70 (1999); *Cable Modem
    Order*, 17 FCC Rcd at 4799, n.2; *Wireline Broadband Internet Access
    Services Order*, 20 FCC Rcd at 14862, para. 12. Nor does the *Order*
    offer any reason to dismiss the considered views of five
    Commissioners reporting to Congress about how to construe the
    classification provisions of the Telecommunications Act.

[^pai224]: Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary,
    and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Pub. L. No. 105-119, 111
    Stat. 2440, 2521, § 623 (1998).

[^pai225]: *Stevens Report*, 13 FCC Rcd at 11520, para. 39.

[^pai226]: *United States v. American Tel. & Tel. Co.*, 552 F. Supp.
    131, 227 (D.D.C. 1982).

[^pai227]: *Compare* Communications Act § 3(24), *with* *United States
    v. American Tel. & Tel. Co.*, 552 F. Supp. 131, 229 (D.D.C. 1982).
    The only difference? The Telecommunications Act added the phrase
    “and includes electronic publishing.”

[^pai228]: *United States v. American Tel. & Tel. Co.*, 552 F. Supp.
    131, 179–80 (D.D.C. 1982) (capitalizations omitted).

[^pai229]: *Stevens Report*, 13 FCC Rcd at 11520, para. 39.

[^pai230]: *Id.* at 11513, para. 27 (citations omitted) (quoting
    *Amendment of Section 64.702 of the Commission’s Rules and
    Regulations (Computer II)*, Final Decision, 77 FCC 2d 384, 425, 428,
    paras. 107–08, 113 (1980)).

[^pai231]: *Id.* at 11514, para. 27 (emphasis added) (quoting *Amendment
    of Section 64.702 of the Commission’s Rules and Regulations
    (Computer II)*, Final Decision, 77 FCC 2d 384, 428, paras. 114
    (1980)).

[^pai232]: *Id.* at 11536–37, para. 75.

[^pai233]: *Id.* (citing *Amendment of Section 64.702 of the
    Commission’s Rules and Regulations (Computer II)*, Final Decision,
    77 FCC 2d 384, 420–21, paras. 97–98 (1980)).

[^pai234]: *Id.* at 11536, para. 74; *id.* at 11520, para. 39 (finding a
    service to be a telecommunications service only if it offers “a
    simple, transparent transmission path, without the capability of
    providing enhanced functionality”); *id.* at 11520–21, para. 40
    (“[A]n entity is *not* deemed to be providing ‘telecommunications,’
    notwithstanding its transmission of user information, in cases in
    which the entity is altering the form or content of that
    information.”); *id.* at 11511, para. 21 (“Congress intended to
    maintain a regime in which information service providers are not
    subject to regulation as common carriers merely because they provide
    their services ‘via telecommunications.’”).

[^pai235]: *Id.* at 11536, para. 74.

[^pai236]: *Id.* at 11536, para. 73.

[^pai237]: *Id.* at 11539–40, para. 80.

[^pai238]: *Id.* at 11538, para. 76 (emphasis added); *id.* at 11537,
    para. 76 (“Internet access providers typically provide their
    subscribers with the ability to run a variety of applications,
    including World Wide Web browsers, FTP clients, Usenet newsreaders,
    electronic mail clients, Telnet applications, and others.”
    (footnotes omitted)).

[^pai239]: *Id.* at 11520, para. 38 (quoting Letter from Senators John
    Ashcroft, Wendell Ford, John Kerry, Spencer Abraham, and Ron Wyden
    to the Honorable William E. Kennard, Chairman, FCC (Mar. 23, 1998)
    (*Five Senators Letter*), *available at*
    http://apps.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/view?id=2038710001); *see also
    Five Senators Letter* (“[W]ere the FCC to reverse its prior
    conclusions and suddenly subject some or all information service
    providers to telephone regulation, it seriously would chill the
    growth and development of advanced services to the detriment of our
    economic and educational well-being.”).

[^pai240]: *Stevens Report*, 13 FCC Rcd at 11519, para. 37 (quoting
    Letter from Senator John McCain to the Honorable William E. Kennard,
    Chairman, FCC).

[^pai241]: *Id.* at 11511, para. 21.

[^pai242]: *Id.* at 11524, para. 45.

[^pai243]: Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended, preamble.

[^pai244]: *Stevens Report*, 13 FCC Rcd at 1524, para. 46.

[^pai245]: Communications Act § 230(b)(2).

[^pai246]: *Amendment of Section 64.702 of the Commission’s Rules and
    Regulations (Computer II)*, Final Decision, 77 FCC 2d 384, 421,
    para. 97 & n.35 (1980).

[^pai247]: To rebut this point, the *Order* notes that it “is not
    uncommon in the toll-free arena for a single number to route to
    multiple locations.” *Order* at para. 361. But the FCC expressly
    found that the management of toll-free numbers is “*not* a common
    carrier service” in 1996 and that “Resporgs” that manage toll-free
    numbers “do not need to be carriers.” *800 Data Base Access Tariffs
    and the 800 Service Management System Tariff; Provision of 800
    Services*, CC Docket Nos. 93-129, 86-10, Report and Order, 11 FCC
    Rcd 15227, 15248–49, paras. 44–45 (1996) (emphasis added).

[^pai248]: AT&T Reply at 54; Bright House Reply at 6–7.

[^pai249]: Akamai Comments at 3; *see also* Netflix, Netflix Open
    Connect Content Delivery for ISPs (“Unlike traditional content
    caches which retrieve new content when a user requests an object
    that is not currently present in the cache, new and popular content
    is pushed from Netflix to the [Netflix-supplied Open Caching
    Appliances at interconnection points] on a nightly basis over
    peering or IP transit.”), *available at* http://nflx.it/1wpo0jw.

[^pai250]: ACA Comments at 54–60; AT&T Comments at 48–49; CenturyLink
    Comments at 44–45; Charter Comments at 14–15; Comcast Comments at
    57; NCTA Comments at 34–35; T-Mobile Comments at 20; Time Warner
    Cable Comments at 12; USTelecom Comments at 26–27; USTelecom Reply
    at 29; Verizon Comments at 59–60.

[^pai251]: *See, e.g.*, Broadband Internet Technical Advisory Group,
    Report on Port Blocking at 6 (Aug. 2013), *available at*
    http://www.bitag.org/documents/Port-Blocking.pdf.

[^pai252]: Comcast Reply at 22; Verizon Comments at 60–61.

[^pai253]: Fred B. Campbell, Center for Boundless Innovation in
    Technology, Broadband Transmissions Are Not “Telecommunications,” GN
    Docket No. 14-28, at 30 (Feb. 18, 2014), *available at*
    http://go.usa.gov/3aUWA.

[^pai254]: *Stevens Report*, 13 FCC Rcd at 11532, para. 64.

[^pai255]: Communications Act § 3(50) (defining “telecommunications”).

[^pai256]: *Order* at para. 373.

[^pai257]: Communications Act § 3(24) (defining the term “information
    service” and noting that it “does not include any use of any such
    capability for the management, control, or operation of a
    telecommunications system or the management of a telecommunications
    service”).

[^pai258]: Despite the *Order*’s claim to the contrary, *Order* at note
    975, this line of reasoning does not contradict the Court’s holding
    in *Brand X*, since the last-mile transmission service discussed
    there (and which I discuss below) is just not the same service as
    the Internet access service that the *Order* claims is a
    telecommunications service here. And one need look no further than
    section 230 of the Communications Act along with the legislative
    history reviewed in the *Stevens Report*—all described above—to find
    compelling evidence that Congress did in fact think that Internet
    access service was an information service.

[^pai259]: *FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp*., 529 U.S. 120, 133
    (2000).

[^pai260]: *Cf.* *MCI Telecomms. Corp. v. Am. Tel. & Tel. Co.*, 512 U.S.
    218, 231 (1994) (“It is highly unlikely that Congress would leave
    the determination of whether an industry will be entirely, or even
    substantially, rate-regulated to agency discretion.”).

[^pai261]: *Order* at para. 330.

[^pai262]: *Order* at para. 330.

[^pai263]: *Order* at para. 330.

[^pai264]: *Order* at para. 350.

[^pai265]: *Order* at para. 348.

[^pai266]: Internet Archive Wayback Machine: Yahoo!,
    http://bit.ly/18xSlB5 (Oct. 15, 1997).

[^pai267]: Internet Archive Wayback Machine: HoTMaiL,
    http://bit.ly/1887bOB (Dec. 20, 1996).

[^pai268]: Rosalie Marshall, Yahoo closing GeoCities web hosting
    service, vnunet.com (Apr. 24, 2009), *available at*
    http://bit.ly/198SoVg; *see also* Internet Archive Wayback Machine:
    GeoCities, http://bit.ly/1B0pV9E (Feb. 22, 1997).

[^pai269]: Internet Archive Wayback Machine: Amazon.com,
    http://bit.ly/198StZ0 (Oct. 13, 1999).

[^pai270]: *Compare* FCC, High-Speed Services for Internet Access:
    Subscribership as of June 30, 2000, at 2 (Oct. 2000), *available at*
    http://go.usa.gov/3aUZe, *with* FCC, Internet Access Services:
    Status as of December 31, 2013, at 4 (Oct. 2014), *available at*
    http://go.usa.gov/3aUBH.

[^pai271]: *Cable Modem Order*, 17 FCC Rcd at 4816, para. 25.

[^pai272]: *Order* at para. 330.

[^pai273]: *Order* at para. 351 (citing Public Knowledge Comments
    Appendix at A-2).

[^pai274]: *Order* at para. 352 (citing Public Knowledge Comments
    Appendix at A-3).

[^pai275]: *Order* at para. 353 (citing Public Knowledge Comments
    Appendix at A-1).

[^pai276]: Qwest, Qwest Commercial 1999 – Every Movie,
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xAxtxPAUcwQ.

[^pai277]: Charter, Charter Pipeline (2001), http://bit.ly/1EQV19H.

[^pai278]: America Online, AOL Commercial from 1999,
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MQcCnPWHlLk.

[^pai279]: *Inquiry Concerning the Deployment of Advanced
    Telecommunications Capability to All Americans in a Reasonable and
    Timely Fashion, and Possible Steps to Accelerate Such Deployment
    Pursuant to Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996*, CC
    Docket No. 98-146, Second Report, 15 FCC Rcd 20913, 20931, paras.
    36–37 (2000).

[^pai280]: *Order* at para. 330.

[^pai281]: Despite the *Order*’s suggestion to the contrary, the *Cable
    Modem Order* did not limit its prediction to “fixed broadband.”

[^pai282]: *2015 Broadband Progress Report* at para. 109.

[^pai283]: *See 2015 Broadband Progress Report* at paras. 15–16
    (observing that “[p]rivate industry continues to invest billions of
    dollars to expand America’s broadband networks” and explicitly
    comparing cable, telco, wireless, Google Fiber, and municipal
    broadband investments).

[^pai284]: *Order* at para. 76 & note 114 (noting “the remarkable
    increases in investment and innovation seen in recent years” and
    citing as evidence of robust broadband infrastructure investment
    cable, telco, wireless incumbent investment and new entrants like
    Google Fiber).

[^pai285]: *Deployment of Wireline Services Offering Advanced
    Telecommunications Capability*, CC Docket No. 98-147, Memorandum
    Opinion and Order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 13 FCC Rcd
    24012, 24026–27, para. 29 (1998).

[^pai286]: *Id.* at 24027, paras. 30–31.

[^pai287]: *Id.* at 24030, para. 36.

[^pai288]: *Wireline Broadband Internet Access Services Order*, 20 FCC
    Rcd at 14899, para. 86.

[^pai289]: *Id.* at 14899–900, paras. 86–88 (describing this as a
    service that both end users and ISPs would purchase).

[^pai290]: *Id.* at 14900–03, paras. 89–95; NTCA Comments at 9. Notably,
    rural carriers exercising this option do *not* treat the Internet
    access service itself as a Title II telecommunications service and
    generally offer that service through a separate, affiliated ISP that
    purchases the last-mile transmission service from the carrier. To
    the extent the *Order* suggests otherwise, *see Order* at para. 422,
    it is incorrect.

[^pai291]: *Nat’l Cable & Telecomms. Ass’n v. Brand X Internet Servs.*,
    545 U.S. 967, 988 (2005).

[^pai292]: *Id.* at 1010 (Scalia, J., dissenting).

[^pai293]: *Id*. at 1007 (Scalia, J., dissenting).

[^pai294]: *Order* at para. 204.

[^pai295]: *Order* at para. 337.

[^pai296]: *Order* at paras. 366–75. The *Order* misunderstands the
    analogy when it supposes that “the pizzeria owners discovered that
    other nearby restaurants did not deliver their food and thus
    concluded that the pizza-delivery drivers could generate more
    revenue by delivering from any neighborhood restaurant (including
    their own pizza some of the time). Consumers would clearly
    understand that they are being offered a delivery service.” *Order*
    at para. 45. Of course they would. And if someone offered a
    last-mile transmission service available to any ISP, of course that
    would be a telecommunications service. But that’s not what any
    broadband Internet access service provider is offering, and so the
    analogy utterly fails.

[^pai297]: *Order* at para. 313.

[^pai298]: The *Order* objects in a footnote that “the service we define
    and classify today *is* the same transmission service as that
    discussed in prior Commission orders.” *Order* at note 1257. But it
    undermines that argument just one sentence before, when it describes
    the service as one with “the capability to send and receive packets
    to all or substantially all Internet endpoints.” *Id.* The
    transmission service the FCC previously recognized was not and is
    not so expansive—it’s a last-mile transmission service connecting
    customers to computer-processing facilities for Internet access.
    That’s why the *Wireline Broadband Internet Access Services Order*
    recognized that ISPs would be customers of such service. *See* 20
    FCC Rcd at 14902, para. 92 (describing the transmission service
    offered to “end user and ISP customers”). And that’s why even today
    the tariffs of the National Exchange Carrier Association describe
    Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) as a local point-to-point service.
    *See, e.g.*, NECA Tariff FCC No. 5, 20th Revised Page 8-1
    http://bit.ly/1wkvPH8 (effective through Mar. 1, 2015) (describing
    DSL Access service as a transmission service “over local exchange
    service facilities . . . between customer designated premises and
    designated Telephone Company Serving Wire Centers”). To return to
    the pizzeria analogy: Before, the Commission regulated the delivery
    from the pizzeria to the customer; now, the Commission wants to
    regulate that delivery plus the delivery of all or substantially all
    of the ingredients to the pizzeria. The one thing is not like the
    other.

[^pai299]: *See, e.g.*, *Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of United States,
    Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co*., 463 U.S. 29 (1983).

[^pai300]: *FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc*., 556 U.S. 502, 515
    (2009) (citing *Smiley v. Citibank (South Dakota), N. A.,* 517 U.S.
    735, 742 (1996)).

[^pai301]: *Id.* at 513–16.

[^pai302]: *Inquiry Concerning the Deployment of Advanced
    Telecommunications Capability to All Americans in a Reasonable and
    Timely Fashion, and Possible Steps to Accelerate Such Deployment
    Pursuant to Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996*, CC
    Docket No. 98-146, Report, 14 FCC Rcd 2398, para. 38 (1999).

[^pai303]: *See, e.g.*, USTelecom, Broadband Investment, Historical
    Broadband Provider Capex (2015) (data through 2013), *available at*
    http://www.ustelecom.org/broadband-industry-stats/investment/historical-broadband-provider-capex.

[^pai304]: *Wireless Broadband Internet Access Order*, 22 FCC Rcd at
    5926 (Statement of Chairman Kevin J. Martin).

[^pai305]: *See supra* Part I.

[^pai306]: *National Black Media Coalition v. FCC*, 775 F.2d 342, 356
    n.17 (D.C. Cir. 1985); *see also Fox*, 556 U.S. at 537 (Kennedy, J.,
    concurring in part and concurring in the judgment) (“Congress passed
    the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) to ensure that agencies
    follow constraints even as they exercise their powers. One of these
    constraints is the duty of agencies to find and formulate policies
    that can be justified by neutral principles and a reasoned
    explanation.”).

[^pai307]: Communications Act § 332(c)(1)(A) (“A person engaged in the
    provision of a service that is a commercial mobile service shall,
    insofar as such person is so engaged, be treated as a common
    carrier.”).

[^pai308]: Communications Act § 332(c)(2) (“A person engaged in the
    provision of a service that is a private mobile service shall not,
    insofar as such person is so engaged, be treated as a common carrier
    for any purpose.”).

[^pai309]: Communications Act § 332(d)(1).

[^pai310]: Communications Act § 332(d)(2).

[^pai311]: 47 C.F.R. § 20.3.

[^pai312]: 47 C.F.R. § 20.3.

[^pai313]: Communications Act § 332(d)(3).

[^pai314]: *Wireless Broadband Internet Access Order*, 22 FCC Rcd at
    5901.

[^pai315]: *Id.* at 5916, para. 41.

[^pai316]: *Id.* at 5916, 5917, paras. 41, 45 & n.118.

[^pai317]: *Reexamination of Roaming Obligations of Commercial Mobile
    Radio Service Providers and Other Providers of Mobile Data
    Services*, WT Docket No. 05-265, 26 FCC Rcd 5411, 5431, para. 41
    (2011).

[^pai318]: *Cellco Partnership v. FCC*, 700 F.3d 534, 538 (D.C. Cir.
    2012).

[^pai319]: *Id.* at 548.

[^pai320]: *Id.* at 538; *see also* *id.* (recognizing that the
    Communications Act’s definition of the term “common carrier” has
    been “interpreted . . . to exclude providers of ‘information
    services’”).

[^pai321]: *Verizon v. FCC*, 740 F.3d 623, 650 (D.C. Cir. 2014).

[^pai322]: The White House, Net Neutrality: President Obama’s Plan for a
    Free and Open Internet
    https://web.archive.org/web/20150204034321/http://www.whitehouse.gov/net-neutrality
    (Nov. 10, 2014) (“I believe the FCC should make these rules fully
    applicable to mobile broadband as well.”).

[^pai323]: *Order* at paras. 400–01.

[^pai324]: *Wireless Broadband Internet Access Order*, 22 FCC Rcd at
    5917–18, para. 45.

[^pai325]: *See, e.g.*, *Time Warner Cable Request for Declaratory
    Ruling that Competitive Local Exchange Carriers May Obtain
    Interconnection under Section 251 of the Communications Act of 1934,
    as Amended, to Provide Wholesale Telecommunications Services to VoIP
    Providers*, WC Docket No. 06-55, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 22
    FCC Rcd 3513, 3521–22, paras. 15–16 (Wireline Comp. Bur. 2007)
    (noting the “regulatory classification of the [VoIP] service
    provided to the ultimate end user has no bearing on” the regulatory
    status of the entities “transmitting [the VoIP] traffic”).

[^pai326]: *Wireless Broadband Internet Access Order*, 22 FCC Rcd at
    5918, para. 45 (stating that “users of a mobile wireless broadband
    Internet access service need to rely on another service or
    application, such as certain voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP)
    services . . . to make calls”).

[^pai327]: *Id.* at 5917–18, paras. 45–46.

[^pai328]: *See Order* at para. 401.

[^pai329]: *Order* at para. 391.

[^pai330]: *Perrin v. United States*, 444 U.S. 37, 42 (1979); *see also
    Evans v. United States*, 504 U.S. 255, 260 n.3 (1992) (Where a
    “‘word is obviously transplanted from another legal source, whether
    common law or other legislation, it brings the old soil with it.’”
    (quoting Justice Felix Frankfurter, Some Reflections on the Reading
    of Statutes, 47 C<span style="font-variant:small-caps;">olum</span>.
    L. R<span style="font-variant:small-caps;">ev</span>. 527, 537
    (1947)).

[^pai331]: *Applications of Winter Park Tel. Co*., Memorandum Opinion
    and Order, 84 FCC.2d 689, 690, para. 2, n.3 (1981).

[^pai332]: *Ad Hoc Telecommunications Users Committee v. FCC*, 680 F.2d
    790, 793 (D.C. Cir. 1982).

[^pai333]: *MTS and WATS Market Structure; Amendment of Part 67 of the
    Commission’s Rules and Establishment of a Joint Board*, CC Docket
    Nos. 78-72, 80-286, Order Inviting Further Comments, 50 Fed. Reg.
    31749, 41749 (Fed.-State Jt. Bd. 1985).

[^pai334]: *Amendment of Part 22 of the Commission’s Rules Relating to
    License Renewals in the Domestic Public Cellular Radio
    Telecommunications Service*, CC Docket No. 90-358, Report and Order,
    7 FCC Rcd 719, 720, para. 9 (1992); *see also* *Provision of Access
    for 800 Service*, CC Docket No. 86-10, Memorandum Opinion and Order
    on Reconsideration and Second Supplemental Notice of Proposed
    Rulemaking, 6 FCC Rcd 5421, 5421, n.3 (1991) (“800 numbers generally
    must be translated into [plain old telephone service] numbers before
    800 calls can be transmitted over the public switched network.”);
    *Telecommunications Services for Hearing-Impaired and
    Speech-Impaired Individuals, and the Americans with Disabilities Act
    of 1990*, CC Docket No. 90-571, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 5 FCC
    Rcd 7187, 7190, para. 20 (1990) (noting that “subscribers to every
    telephone common carriers’ interstate service, including private
    line, public switched network services, and other common carrier
    services, will contribute”); Letter from Scott Bergmann, CTIA to
    Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary, FCC, GN Docket Nos. 14-28, 10-137, at
    7 n.2 (Dec. 22, 2014) (collecting authorities).

[^pai335]: *Implementation of Sections 3(n) and 332 of the
    Communications Act; Regulatory Treatment of Mobile Services*, GN
    Docket No. 93-252, Second Report and Order, 9 FCC Rcd 1411, 1434,
    para. 53 (1994) (*CMRS Second Report and Order*).

[^pai336]: *Id.*

[^pai337]: *Id.* at 1436–37, para. 59. To support its action here, the
    Commission cites commenters that called on the FCC in 1994 to
    broaden the scope of the term “the public switched network” to
    include the “network of networks,” or otherwise separate the term
    entirely from the traditional public switched telephone network.
    *See Order* at note 1145. Again, this ignores that the Commission
    *rejected* those commenters’ calls to so fundamentally alter the
    term “the public switched network” and made clear that, consistent
    with section 332, it was limiting the term to covering services that
    are “interconnected with the traditional local exchange or
    interexchange switched network.” *CMRS Second Report and Order*, 9
    FCC Rcd at 1436–37, para. 59.

[^pai338]: *McDermott Intern., Inc. v. Wilander*, 498 U.S. 337, 342
    (1991).

[^pai339]: Indeed, section 332’s legislative history confirms that
    Congress used the terms interchangeably. Although both the House and
    Senate versions of the legislation used the term “the public
    switched network,” the Conference Report characterized the House
    version as requiring interconnection with “the Public switched
    *telephone* network.” H.R. Rep. 103-213, 103d Cong., 1st Sess. 495
    (1993) (emphasis added).

[^pai340]: *See, e.g.*, Telecommunications Act § 704(b) (amending
    section 332 of the Communications Act).

[^pai341]: *Commodity Futures Trading Com’n v. Schor*, 478 U.S. 833, 846
    (1986) (quoting *NLRB v. Bell Aerospace Co.*, 416 U.S. 267, 274–275
    (1974)); *see also* *Cottage Sav. Ass’n v. C.I.R.* 499 U.S. 554, 561
    (1991) (“‘[I]nterpretations long continued without substantial
    change, applying to unamended or substantially reenacted statutes,
    are deemed to have received congressional approval and have the
    effect of law.’” (quoting *U.S. v. Correll*, 389 U.S. 299, 305–06
    (1967))); *City of Pleasant Grove v. U.S.*, 479 U.S. 462, 468 (1987)
    (Where Congress is aware of an administrative interpretation when it
    revises a statute, it “implicitly approve[s] it.”).

[^pai342]: 47 U.S.C. § 1422(b)(1).

[^pai343]: *See, e.g.*, *Sullivan v. Stroop*, 496 U.S. 478, 484 (1990)
    (applying the “normal rule of statutory construction that identical
    words used in different parts of the same act are intended to have
    the same meaning” to a single term used in two separate, but
    related, statutes (internal quotation marks omitted)).

[^pai344]: 47 C.F.R. § 20.3 (emphasis added).

[^pai345]: In an effort to try to avoid this absurdity, the *Order* says
    in a footnote that it is making a “conforming change to the
    definition of Interconnected Service in section 20.3 of the
    Commission’s rules.” *Order* at note 1175; *see also* 47 C.F.R. §
    20.3 (defining interconnected service as one “[t]hat is
    interconnected with the public switched network, or interconnected
    with the public switched network through an interconnected service
    provider, that gives subscribers the capability to communicate to or
    receive communication from *all* other users on the public switched
    network”) (emphasis added). That change? Deleting the word “all”
    from the definition of interconnected service! *Order* at Appendix
    A. There are many words one could use to describe this amendment.
    “Conforming” (or “minor”) is not one of them. Under this change,
    every user of Network A (say, the public switched telephone network)
    could lack the capability to communicate with any user of Network B
    (say, the Internet) and vice-versa, but, because of the FCC’s
    definitional change, Network A and Network B would now be a single,
    interconnected network. That is plainly at odds with the entire
    structure of section 332 and any reasonable understanding of the
    concept of an interconnected network and interconnected services.

    Indeed, the FCC never proposed such a change, has no record on which
    to do so, and nowhere explains how the change can be squared with
    the text, purpose, or history of section 332, including the
    Commission’s own view that the purpose of the interconnected
    services definition is to ensure that those services are “broadly
    available.” *See Order* at para. 402. Although the *Order* tries to
    bolster its approach by contending that the definition of
    “interconnected service” and the *CMRS Second Report and Order*
    recognize that a service can be interconnected even if access is
    limited in some ways, *Order* at para. 402 & note 1172, this effort
    fails because the FCC there was focusing on phenomena such as
    service providers intentionally limiting users’ access to the public
    switched network to certain hours each day, for the sole purpose of
    avoiding classification as a commercial mobile service. *See, e.g.*,
    *CMRS Second Report and Order*, 9 FCC Rcd at 1435, para. 55. That is
    the apple to the *Order*’s orange, given that the Commission here is
    attempting to deem two networks and services “interconnected” even
    though they never interconnect.

[^pai346]: *Order* at para. 396.

[^pai347]: Communications Act § 332(d)(2).

[^pai348]: Communications Act § 332(d)(2). Compare, too, the
    parenthetical language in section 332(d)(2) with the parallel
    statutory provisions that nest around the definition of
    “interconnected service.” In both section 332(d)(1), which defines
    “commercial mobile service,” and section 332(d)(3), which defines
    “private mobile service,” the parallel parentheticals state “(as
    defined in section 153 of this title).” So rather than providing
    evidence that the phrases are not terms of art or that Congress was
    delegating the FCC unbounded discretion to define the relevant
    terms, it is both a far more modest delegation, as explained above,
    and one that simply recognizes that Congress itself had not codified
    the relevant terms.

[^pai349]: *City of Arlington, Tex. v. FCC*, 133 S.Ct. 1863, 1874
    (2013); *see also Chevron, U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense
    Council, Inc.*, 467 U.S. 837, 842 (1984).

[^pai350]: *CMRS Second Report and Order*, 9 FCC Rcd at 1436, para. 59.

[^pai351]: *See id.* at 1433–34, para. 53.

[^pai352]: *Order* at paras. 391, 396, & note 1145 (citing *CMRS Second
    Report and Order*, 9 FCC Rcd at 1436, para. 59).

[^pai353]: *See CMRS Second Report and Order*, 9 FCC Rcd at 1431–37,
    paras. 50–60; *id.* at 1434, para. 54 (“The purpose underlying the
    congressional approach, we conclude, is to ensure that a mobile
    service that gives its customers the capability to communicate to or
    receive communication from other users of the public switched
    network should be treated as a common carriage offering (if the
    other elements of the definition of commercial mobile radio service
    are also present[.)]”); *id.* at 1433, para. 52 (“Several parties
    caution that making distinctions based on technologies could
    encourage mobile service providers to design their systems to avoid
    commercial mobile radio service regulation.”); *see also Wireless
    Broadband Internet Access Order*, 22 FCC Rcd at 5918, para. 45 n.119
    (describing the *Second CMRS Report and Order* and stating that,
    “[i]n fact, the Commission found that ‘commercial mobile service’
    must still be interconnected with the local exchange or
    interexchange switched network as it evolves”).

[^pai354]: *See CMRS Second Report and Order*, 9 FCC Rcd at 1432, 1435,
    paras. 52, 57 (discussing *Establishment of Satellite Systems
    Providing International Communications*, CC Docket No. 84-1299,
    Report and Order, 101 FCC 2d 1046, 1101, para. 114 (1985)
    (discussing various “switched message services such as MTS, telex,
    TWX, telegraph, teletext, facsimile and high speed switched data
    services”); *see also id.*at 1454–59, paras. 100–15 (identifying
    then-existing common carrier services).

[^pai355]: *See Order* at note 1145 (noting that the *Second CMRS Report
    and Order* recognized that non-telephone common carrier switched
    services and networks that themselves interconnect with the
    traditional public switched network are considered part of that
    network for purposes of section 332).

[^pai356]: The *Order* attempts to evade this argument when it contrasts
    the “millions of subscribers” to mobile broadband Internet access
    service with the fact that private mobile service “includes services
    not ‘effectively available to a substantial portion of the public.’”
    *Order* at para. 398. But the statute poses a three-part test: To be
    a commercial mobile service, a service must be provided for a fee,
    available to the public, *and* an interconnected service. So a
    service *is* a private mobile service if it isn’t interconnected
    with the public switched network—even if it’s provided for a fee and
    made available to a substantial portion of the public (or even every
    single American). Any other reading of the statute would render one
    part of the statutory test surplusage. Indeed, the Commission has
    made this very point. *See CMRS Second Report and Order*, 9 FCC Rcd
    at 1450–51, paras. 88–93 (concluding that most specialized mobile
    radio services meet the first two parts of the test so that the
    classification of any particular specialized mobile radio service
    thus “turns on whether they do, in fact, provide interconnected
    service as defined by the statute”). Again, the problem for the
    *Order* is that mobile broadband Internet access service falls
    squarely into the non-interconnected camp and thus cannot be
    classified as a commercial mobile service.

[^pai357]: *See Order* at paras. 404–05.

[^pai358]: *See* 47 C.F.R. § 20.9(14); *see also CMRS Second Report and
    Order*, 9 FCC Rcd at 1442–48, paras. 71–80 (adopting the current
    framework for determining whether a service may be deemed the
    functional equivalent of a commercial mobile service).

[^pai359]: *See* 47 C.F.R. § 20.9(14)(i).

[^pai360]: *See* 47 C.F.R. § 20.9(14)(ii)(B).

[^pai361]: *See Order* at paras. 400–01, 405, 407.

[^pai362]: That the FCC classifies a service based on the nature of the
    service itself is well established. The Commission has found as much
    in this very context. *See, e.g.*, *Wireless Broadband Internet
    Access Order*, 22 FCC Rcd at 5917–18, paras. 45–46 (recognizing that
    the regulatory classification of VoIP services is irrelevant to the
    regulatory classification of the separate mobile broadband Internet
    access service); *see* *also* *Time Warner Cable Request for
    Declaratory Ruling that Competitive Local Exchange Carriers May
    Obtain Interconnection under Section 251 of the Communications Act
    of 1934, as Amended, to Provide Wholesale Telecommunications
    Services to VoIP Providers*, WC Docket No. 06-55, Memorandum Opinion
    and Order, 22 FCC Rcd 3513, 3520–21, paras. 15–16 (Wireline Comp.
    Bur. 2007) (noting the “regulatory classification of the [VoIP]
    service provided to the ultimate end user has no bearing on” the
    regulatory status of the entities “transmitting [the VoIP]
    traffic”).

[^pai363]: *CMRS Second Report and Order*, 9 FCC Rcd at 1447, para. 79.

[^pai364]: *See Order* at para. 407.

[^pai365]: *See Order* at para. 403.

[^pai366]: *See Order* at para. 403 (citing Communications Act § 332
    (prohibiting the common carrier treatment of private mobile service
    providers) and Communications Act § 3 (requiring the common carrier
    treatment of providers of telecommunications services)).

[^pai367]: Recall, too, that a provider of private mobile service “shall
    not . . . be treated as a common carrier for any purpose.”
    Communications Act § 332(c)(2). One of those purposes is certainly
    treating it as such for the purpose of avoiding manufactured
    “statutory contradictions.”

[^pai368]: *See, e.g.*, *Order* at paras. 275–82.

[^pai369]: Telecommunications Act § 706(a)–(b).

[^pai370]: Communications Act § 227(b)(2).

[^pai371]: Communications Act § 251(d)(1).

[^pai372]: Communications Act § 201(b) (“The Commissioner [*sic*] may
    prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary in the
    public interest to carry out the provisions of this Act.”); *see
    also* Communications Act § 303(r) (“Except as otherwise provided in
    this Act, the Commission from time to time, as public convenience,
    interest, or necessity requires shall— . . . [m]ake such rules and
    regulations and prescribe such restrictions, not inconsistent with
    law, as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
    Act . . . .”).

[^pai373]: Communications Act § 205(a).

[^pai374]: Communications Act § 205(a).

[^pai375]: Communications Act § 213(b).

[^pai376]: Communications Act § 409(e).

[^pai377]: Communications Act § 503(b)(1).

[^pai378]: Communications Act § 503(b)(2)(E).

[^pai379]: Communications Act § 209.

[^pai380]: *Policy and Rules Concerning Rates for Dominant Carriers*, CC
    Docket No. 87-313, Second Report and Order, 5 FCC Rcd 6786 (1990).

[^pai381]: Telecommunications Act § 401 (titled “Regulatory Forbearance”
    and inserting section 10 into Title I of the Communications Act).

[^pai382]: Telecommunications Act § 101 (inserting section 253 into
    Title II of the Communications Act).

[^pai383]: Telecommunications Act § 101 (inserting section 257 into
    Title II of the Communications Act).

[^pai384]: Telecommunications Act § 101 (inserting Part II, §§ 251–61,
    into Title II of the Communications Act).

[^pai385]: *Verizon v. FCC*, 740 F.3d 623, 638 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (quoting
    *Open Internet Order*, 25 FCC Rcd at 17969, para. 120).

[^pai386]: Telecommunications Act § 1(b) (“[W]henever in this Act an
    amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or
    repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be
    considered to be made to a section or other provision of the
    Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 *et seq*.).”); *see also*
    Telecommunications Act § 101 (“Establishment of Part II of Title II.
    (a) Amendment.—Title II is amended by inserting after section 229
    (47 U.S.C. 229) the following new part: . . . .”). Notably, all of
    the provisions at issue in the Supreme Court case *AT&T v. Iowa
    Utils. Bd.* were in fact inserted into the Communications Act, and
    thus the Court could plausibly claim that “Congress expressly
    directed that the 1996 Act . . . be inserted into the Communications
    Act.” *AT&T v. Iowa Utils. Bd*., 525 U.S. 366, 377 (1999).

[^pai387]: For other examples, see Telecommunications Act §§ 202(h),
    704(c).

[^pai388]: Communications Act § 2(a).

[^pai389]: *Verizon v. FCC*, 740 F.3d 623, 640 (D.C. Cir. 2014).

[^pai390]: *Deployment of Wireline Services Offering Advanced
    Telecommunications Capability*, CC Docket No. 98-147, Memorandum
    Opinion and Order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 13 FCC Rcd
    24012, 24046, para. 73 (1998) (*Advanced Services Order*).

[^pai391]: The *Verizon* court asked the wrong question when it noted
    that it “might well hesitate to conclude that Congress intended to
    grant the Commission substantive authority in section 706(a) if that
    authority would have no limiting principle.” *Verizon v. FCC*, 740
    F.3d 623, 639 (D.C. Cir. 2014). The question is not whether section
    706 of the Telecommunications Act contains some “intelligible
    principle” and thus does not violate the non-delegation doctrine.
    *Cf.* *Whitman v. American Trucking Associations*, 531 U.S. 457, 472
    (2001). Instead, the question is one of congressional intent: Did
    Congress really intend to put specific limits on the Commission’s
    forbearance authority in one place (section 10 of the Communications
    Act) only to largely eliminate them in another (section 706 of the
    Telecommunications Act)? Such an interpretation doesn’t make sense.

[^pai392]: Telecommunications Act § 706(a).

[^pai393]: *See, e.g.*, Communications Act § 2(a) (“The provisions of
    this Act shall apply to all interstate and foreign
    communication . . . .”); § 2(b) (“[N]othing in this Act shall be
    construed to apply or to give the Commission jurisdiction with
    respect to . . . intrastate communication service . . . .”).

[^pai394]: *See* Communications Act §§ 214(e)(6), 252(e).

[^pai395]: *See* Communications Act §§ 10(e), 253(d).

[^pai396]: *See* Communications Act § 224(c).

[^pai397]: *Order* at para. 431.

[^pai398]: *Order* at para. 433.

[^pai399]: To be fair, the *Order* suggests that States might have some
    role to play, at least with data collection, *see* *Order* at notes
    708 & 1276, but such a role hardly squares with hardy “regulating
    methods” like “price cap regulation” and “regulatory forbearance”
    that the Commission claims for itself.

[^pai400]: Relying on a statement contained in a *dissenting* opinion by
    a U.S. Supreme Court Justice, the *Order* speculates that
    “Commission actions adopted pursuant to a negative section 706(b)
    determination would not simply be swept away by a future positive
    section 706(b) finding.” *Order* at note 714. But what authority
    would the Commission have to enforce a section 706(b) rule without
    section 706(b) authority? Indeed, if Congress gave the Federal
    Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) authority to act during a
    hurricane, would anyone think that FEMA could continue that course
    once the storm had passed, sunny skies had returned, and recovery
    efforts were over? Of course not. So too here. But more to the
    point, even asking this question is sure to trap the agency in the
    labyrinth of section 706(b)’s on-off authority; the only way to
    escape is not to enter. Here, that means not interpreting section
    706 to provide the Commission with authority in the first place.

[^pai401]: *Deployment of Wireline Services Offering Advanced
    Telecommunications Capability*, CC Docket No. 98-147, Memorandum
    Opinion and Order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 13 FCC Rcd
    24012, 24047, para. 77 (1998).

[^pai402]: *Petition of Qwest Corporation for Forbearance Pursuant to 47
    U.S.C. § 160(c) in the Omaha Metropolitan Statistical Area*, WC
    Docket No. 04-223, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 20 FCC Rcd 19415,
    19469, para. 107 (2005), *aff’d by* *Qwest Corp. v. FCC*, 482 F.3d
    471 (D.C. Cir. 2007).

[^pai403]: *Petition of ACS of Anchorage*, WC Docket No. 06-109,
    Memorandum Opinion and Order, 22 FCC Rcd 16304, 16356, para. 118
    (2007).

[^pai404]: *Petition of the Embarq Local Operating Companies for
    Forbearance et al.*, WC Docket No. 06-147, Memorandum Opinion and
    Order, 22 FCC Rcd 19478, 19503–04, para. 46 (2007), *aff’d by* *Ad
    Hoc Telecommunications Users Committee v. FCC*, 572 F.3d 903 (D.C.
    Cir. 2009).

[^pai405]: *Implementation of the Local Competition Provisions of the
    Telecommunications Act of 1996*, CC Docket No. 96-98, Third Report
    and Order and Fourth Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 15 FCC
    Rcd 3696, 3840, para. 317 (1999) (“Our overriding objective,
    consistent with the congressional directive in section 706, is to
    ensure that advanced services are deployed on a timely basis to all
    Americans so that consumers across America have the full benefits of
    the ‘Information Age.’”); *Vonage Holdings Corporation Petition for
    Declaratory Ruling Concerning an Order of the Minnesota Public
    Utilities Commission*, WC Docket No. 03-211, Memorandum Opinion and
    Order, 19 FCC Rcd 22404, 22426–27, paras. 36–37 (2004).

[^pai406]: *Implementation of Section 224 of the Act; A National
    Broadband Plan for Our Future*, WC Docket No. 07-245, GN Docket No.
    09-51, Report and Order and Order on Reconsideration, 26 FCC Rcd
    5240, 5317, 5330, paras. 173, 208 (2011); *Implementation of Section
    224 of the Act; Amendment of the Commission’s Rules and Policies
    Governing Pole Attachments*, WC Docket No. 07-245, RM-11293,
    RM-11303, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 22 FCC Rcd 20195, 20209,
    para. 36 (2007).

[^pai407]: S. Rep. No. 104-23 at 50–51 (1995); *see* *Verizon v. FCC*,
    740 F.3d 623, 639 (D.C. Cir. 2014).

[^pai408]: *See* S. 652 § 304(b) (104th Cong. 1995) (contained in “Title
    III—An End to Regulation”).

[^pai409]: S. Rep. No. 104-230 at 210 (1996).

[^pai410]: *Order* at para. 8; *see also* *Order* at paras. 78–101.

[^pai411]: *Order* at note 134; *see also* *Order* at para. 81.

[^pai412]: *Order* at para. 38.

[^pai413]: *Order* at para. 437 (quoting *Ad Hoc Telecommunications
    Users Committee v. FCC*, 572 F.3d 903, 906-07 (D.C. Cir. 2009)).

[^pai414]: *Order* at para. 458.

[^pai415]: Communications Act § 10(a)(1).

[^pai416]: Communications Act § 10(a)(2).

[^pai417]: Communications Act § 10(b).

[^pai418]: Communications Act § 10(a)(3).

[^pai419]: Communications Act § 332(c)(1)(A), (c)(1)(C).

[^pai420]: Although I focus here on precedent related to section
    10(a)(1)’s criterion for forbearance, our precedent uses this same
    analysis when examining whether forbearing from an economic
    regulation would comply with section 10(a)(2)’s focus on protecting
    consumers.

[^pai421]: *Petition for Declaratory Ruling to Clarify 47 U.S.C. § 572
    in the Context of Transactions Between Competitive Local Exchange
    Carriers and Cable Operators; Conditional Petition for Forbearance
    From Section 652 of the Communications Act for Transactions Between
    Competitive Local Exchange Carriers and Cable Operators*, WC Docket
    No. 11-118, Order, 27 FCC Rcd 11532, 11544, para. 27 (2012) (quoting
    *Petition of U S WEST Communications Inc. for a Declaratory Ruling
    Regarding the Provision of National Directory Assistance; Petition
    of U S WEST Communications, Inc., for Forbearance; The Use of N11
    Codes and Other Abbreviated Dialing Arrangements*, CC Docket Nos.
    97-172, 92-105, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 14 FCC Rcd 16252,
    16270, para. 31 (1999)).

[^pai422]: *CMRS Second Report and Order*, 9 FCC Rcd at 1467, para. 136.

[^pai423]: *Id.* at 1478, para. 173.

[^pai424]: *Id.* at 1478, para. 175.

[^pai425]: *Policy and Rules Concerning the Interstate, Interexchange
    Marketplace; Implementation of Section 254(g) of the Communications
    Act of 1934, as amended*, CC Docket No. 96-61, Second Report and
    Order, 11 FCC Rcd 20730, 20752, para. 42 (1996). For those not
    steeped in Commission arcana, an interexchange carrier is a
    long-distance carrier, and all interstate, interexchange carriers
    had been determined to be nondominant at the time of this decision.

[^pai426]: *Petition of Qwest Corporation for Forbearance Pursuant to 47
    U.S.C. § 160(c) in the Omaha Metropolitan Statistical Area*, WC
    Docket No. 04-223, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 20 FCC Rcd 19415,
    19447, para. 64 (2005).

[^pai427]: *Petition of ACS of Anchorage, Inc. Pursuant to Section 10 of
    the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. § 160(c)), for
    Forbearance from Certain Dominant Carrier Regulation of Its
    Interstate Access Services, and for Forbearance of Title II
    Regulation of Its Broadband Services, in the Anchorage, Alaska,
    Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier Study Area*, Memorandum Opinion and
    Order, WC Docket No. 06-109, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 22 FCC
    Rcd 16304, 16330–31, para. 58 (2007); *see also* *Petition of ACS of
    Anchorage, Inc. Pursuant to Section 10 of the Communications Act of
    1934, as Amended, for Forbearance from Sections 251(c)(3) and
    252(d)(1) in the Anchorage Study Area*, WC Docket No. 05-281,
    Memorandum Opinion and Order, 22 FCC Rcd 1958, 1959, para. 1 (2007)
    (eliminating other economic obligations “under comparable
    competitive conditions”).

[^pai428]: *Qwest Petition for Forbearance Under 47 U.S.C. § 160(c) from
    Resale, Unbundling and Other Incumbent Local Exchange Requirements
    Contained in Sections 251 and 271 of the Telecommunications Act of
    1996 in the Terry, Montana Exchange*, WC Docket No. 07-9, Memorandum
    Opinion and Order, 23 FCC Rcd 7257, 7264, para. 13 (2008).

[^pai429]: *Petitions of Verizon Telephone Companies for Forbearance
    Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 160(c) in the Boston, New York,
    Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Providence and Virginia Beach Metropolitan
    Statistical Areas, Inc.*, WC Docket No. 06-172, Memorandum Opinion
    and Order, 22 FCC Rcd 21293, 21311, para. 33 (2007), *remanded*,
    *Verizon Tel. Cos. v. FCC*, 570 F.3d 294 (D.C. Cir. 2009).

[^pai430]: *Petitions of Qwest Corporation for Forbearance Pursuant to
    47 U.S.C. § 160(c) in the Denver, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Phoenix, and
    Seattle Metropolitan Statistical Areas*, WC Docket No. 07-97,
    Memorandum Opinion and Order, 23 FCC Rcd 11729, 11752, para. 31
    (2008).

[^pai431]: *Petition of Qwest Corporation for Forbearance Pursuant to 47
    U.S.C. § 160(c) in the Phoenix, Arizona Metropolitan Statistical
    Area*, WC Docket No. 09-135, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 25 FCC
    Rcd 8622, 8623, para. 2 (2010).

[^pai432]: Rather than citing such precedent, the *Order* attempts to
    sweep aside all competition-focused precedent by claiming it was
    “responding to arguments that competition was sufficient.” *Order*
    at note 1307. That’s no coincidence. Until this *Order*, no
    Commission has *ever* found that it could forbear from economic
    regulation absent competition—and so every Commission order and
    every commenter has focused on the presence or absence of
    competition.

[^pai433]: *See, e.g.*, *Rates for Interstate Inmate Calling Services*,
    WC Docket No. 12-375, Report and Order and Further Notice of
    Proposed Rulemaking, 28 FCC Rcd 14107 (2013) (establishing price
    caps for interstate inmate calling services under section 201 of the
    Communications Act), *pets. for review pending and pets. for stay
    granted in part sub nom. Securus Techs. v. FCC*, No. 13-1280 (D.C.
    Cir. Jan. 13, 2014).

[^pai434]: Communications Act § 203.

[^pai435]: Communications Act § 205.

[^pai436]: Communications Act § 251(b)(1), (c)(3)–(4).

[^pai437]: *Order* at para. 501.

[^pai438]: *Order* at para. 81.

[^pai439]: *Order* at para. 80.

[^pai440]: *Order* at note 134.

[^pai441]: *Order* at paras. 434–542.

[^pai442]: *Petition of Qwest Corporation for Forbearance Pursuant to 47
    U.S.C. § 160(c) in the Omaha Metropolitan Statistical Area*, WC
    Docket No. 04-223, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 20 FCC Rcd 19415
    (2005); *Petition of Qwest Corporation for Forbearance Pursuant to
    47 U.S.C. § 160(c) in the Phoenix, Arizona Metropolitan Statistical
    Area*, WC Docket No. 09-135, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 25 FCC
    Rcd 8622 (2010).

[^pai443]: *Order* at para. 439; *see also* *Order* at note 1305 (citing
    cases).

[^pai444]: *Petition for Forbearance of Iowa Telecommunications
    Services, Inc. d/b/a/ Iowa Telecom Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 160(c)
    from the Deadline for Price Cap Carriers to Elect Interstate Access
    Rates Based on The CALLS Order or a Forward Looking Cost Study*, CC
    Docket No. 01-331, Order, 17 FCC Rcd 24319, 24325–26, paras. 18–19
    (2002).

[^pai445]: *Petition for Forbearance from Application of the
    Communications Act of 1934, as Amended, to Previously Authorized
    Services*, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 12 FCC Rcd 8408, 8411–12,
    paras. 9–10 (Common Carrier Bur. 1997).

[^pai446]: *See, e.g.*, *Petition of USTelecom for Forbearance Under 47
    U.S.C. § 160(c) from Enforcement of Certain Legacy
    Telecommunications Regulations*, WC Docket No. 12-61, Memorandum
    Opinion and Order, 28 FCC Rcd 7627, 7675–76, para. 107 (2013)
    (finding that the data filed in ARMIS Report 43-01 “is not needed to
    ensure just and reasonable rates, terms, and conditions” given the
    continuation of “price cap regulation”); *id.* at 7691, para. 142
    (eliminating the “separate affiliate requirement” for non-Bell
    operating company dominant carriers while retaining the remainder of
    *ex ante* rate regulation such as “dominant carrier regulation, Part
    32 accounting rules, equal access obligations” and “section 251
    [unbundling and resale] obligations”).

[^pai447]: *Review of Foreign Ownership Policies for Common Carrier and
    Aeronautical Radio Licensees*, IB Docket No. 11-133, First Report
    and Order, 27 FCC Rcd 9832, 9839, para. 15 (2012).

[^pai448]: *Petition of USTelecom for Forbearance Under 47 U.S.C. §
    160(c) from Enforcement of Certain Legacy Telecommunications
    Regulations*, WC Docket No. 12-61, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 28
    FCC Rcd 7627, 7671–72, paras. 94, 98 (2013).

[^pai449]: *Order* at para. 458; *see also* *Order* at para. 497 (“[It]
    is our predictive judgment that other protections that remain in
    place are adequate to guard against unjust and unreasonable and
    unjustly and unreasonably discriminatory rates and practices in
    accordance with section 10(a)(1) . . . .”).

[^pai450]: *Order* at para. 444.

[^pai451]: *CMRS Second Report and Order*, 9 FCC Rcd at 1478–79, para.
    175.

[^pai452]: *Order* at para. 203.

[^pai453]: *Order* at para. 499.

[^pai454]: *Order* at para. 499.

[^pai455]: *See* *Order* at paras. 151–53.

[^pai456]: *Order* at para. 205.

[^pai457]: *Order* Appendix B at para. 19.

[^pai458]: Communications Act § 208(b)(1) (“[W]ith respect to any
    investigation under this section of the lawfulness of a charge,
    classification, regulation, or practice, issue an order concluding
    such investigation within 5 months after the date on which the
    complaint was filed.”); *see also* Communications Act § 208(a) (“If
    [a] carrier or carriers shall not satisfy the complaint within the
    time specified or there shall appear to be any reasonable ground for
    investigating said complaint, it shall be the duty of the Commission
    to investigate the matters complained of in such manner and by such
    means as it shall deem proper.”).

[^pai459]: *Order* at para. 458.

[^pai460]: *Review of the Section 251 Unbundling Obligations of
    Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers, Implementation of the Local
    Competition Provisions of the Telecommunications Act of 1996,
    Deployment of Wireline Services Offering Advanced Telecommunications
    Capability*, CC Docket Nos. 01-338, 96-98, 98-147, Report and Order
    and Order on Remand and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 18
    FCC Rcd 16978, 17151–52, paras. 292 (2003).

[^pai461]: *United States Telecom Association v. FCC*, 359 F.3d 554, 582
    (D.C. Cir. 2004).

[^pai462]: *Qwest Petition for Forbearance Under 47 U.S.C. § 160(c) from
    Title II and* Computer Inquiry *Rules with Respect to Broadband
    Services*, WC Docket No. 06-125, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 23
    FCC Rcd 12260, 12275, 12280, paras. 26, 34 (2008); *Petition of the
    Embarq Local Operating Companies for Forbearance Under 47 U.S.C. §
    160(c) from Application of* Computer Inquiry *& Certain Title II
    Common-Carriage Requirements; Petition of the Frontier and Citizens
    ILECs for Forbearance Under Section 47 U.S.C. § 160(c) from Title II
    and* Computer Inquiry *Rules with Respect to Their Broadband
    Services*, WC Docket No. WC 06-147, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 22
    FCC Rcd 19478, 19492, 19496, paras. 22, 30 (2007).

[^pai463]: *Ad Hoc Telecom. Users Committee v. FCC*, 572 F.3d 903, 911
    (D.C. Cir. 2009).

[^pai464]: *Petition for Forbearance of the Verizon Telephone Companies
    Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 160(c); SBC Communications Inc.’s Petition
    for Forbearance Under 47 U.S.C. § 160(c); Qwest Communications
    International Inc. Petition for Forbearance Under 47 U.S.C. §
    160(c); BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. Petition for Forbearance
    Under 47 U.S.C. § 160(c)*, WC Docket Nos. 01-338, 03-235, 03-260,
    04-48, Memorandum Opinion and Order, 19 FCC Rcd 21496, 21507, para.
    24 (2004).

[^pai465]: *EarthLink, Inc. v. FCC*, 462 F.3d 1, 11 (D.C. Cir. 2006).

[^pai466]: *See, e.g.*, *Order* at para. 495 (internal quotation marks
    and brackets omitted) (“We note in this regard that when exercising
    its section 10 forbearance authority ‘[g]uided by section 706,’ the
    Commission permissibly may ‘decide[] to balance the future benefits’
    of encouraging broadband deployment ‘against [the] short term
    impact’ from a grant of forbearance.” (quoting *EarthLink, Inc. v.
    FCC*, 462 F.3d 1, 9 (D.C. Cir. 2006))).

[^pai467]: Notably, the *Order*’s response studiously avoids using the
    statutory word “charges” in favor of the vaguer term “conduct,”
    *Order* at para. 496 & note 1502, and does not explain what, if
    anything, will ensure just and reasonable charges absent either
    competition or economic regulation.

[^pai468]: *EarthLink, Inc. v. FCC*, 462 F.3d 1, 7 (D.C. Cir. 2006).

[^pai469]: *Id.* at 11.

[^pai470]: *Order* at para. 501.

[^pai471]: *Order* at para. 458.

[^pai472]: *Order* at para. 513.

[^pai473]: *Order* at para. 450.

[^pai474]: *Order* at note 1352.

[^pai475]: *Order* at note 1390.

[^pai476]: *Order* at note 1438.

[^pai477]: *Order* at note 1447.

[^pai478]: *Order* at note 1466.

[^pai479]: *Order* at para. 503.

[^pai480]: *Order* at para. 507.

[^pai481]: *Order* at para. 494.

[^pai482]: *Order* at para. 512.

[^pai483]: *Order* at para. 505.

[^pai484]: *Order* at para. 466.

[^pai485]: *Order* at para. 450.

[^pai486]: *Order* at note 1660.

[^pai487]: *Notice*, 29 FCC Rcd at 5653 (Dissenting Statement of
    Commissioner Ajit Pai) (quoting Jerome Taylor, Google chief: My
    fears for Generation Facebook, *The Independent* (Aug. 18, 2010),
    *available at* http://ind.pn/1vWHCty).
