# Statement of Chairman Tom Wheeler

Re: *Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet*, GN Docket No. 14-28.

For over a decade, the Commission has endeavored to protect and promote
the open Internet. FCC Chairs and Commissioners, Republican and Democrat
alike, have embraced the importance of the open Internet, and the need
to protect and promote that openness. Today is the culmination of that
effort, as we adopt the strongest possible open Internet protections.

Last May, the Commission proposed a set of open Internet protections
and, at the same time, asked an extensive series of questions about that
proposal and about alternative approaches for protecting the open
Internet. We asked about the benefits and drawbacks of different
approaches, different rule formulations, and different legal theories.
We asked the public to weigh in, and they responded like never before.

We heard from startups and world-leading tech companies. We heard from
ISPs, large and small. We heard from public-interest groups and
public-policy think tanks. We heard from Members of Congress, and, yes,
the President. Most important, we heard from nearly 4 million Americans
who overwhelmingly spoke up in favor of preserving a free and open
Internet.

We listened. We learned. And we adjusted our approach based on the
public record. In the process we saw a graphic example of why open and
unfettered communications are essential to freedom of expression in the
21st century.

I am incredibly proud of the process the Commission has run in
developing today’s historic open Internet protections. I say that not
just as the head of this agency, but as a U.S. citizen. Today’s Open
Internet Order is a shining example of American democracy at work.

It should not be surprising the public engaged like never before,
because the stakes of the debate before the Commission have never been
higher.

Broadband networks are the most powerful and pervasive connectivity in
history. Broadband is reshaping our economy and recasting the patterns
of our lives. Every day, we rely on high-speed connectivity to do our
jobs, access entertainment, keep up with the news, express our views,
and stay in touch with friends and family.

There are three simple keys to our broadband future. Broadband networks
must be fast. Broadband networks must be fair. Broadband networks must
be open.

We know from the history of previous networks that both human nature and
economic opportunism act to encourage network owners to become
gatekeepers that prioritize their interests above the interests of their
users. As the D.C. Circuit observed in the Verizon decision and as the
public record affirms, broadband providers have both the economic
incentive and the technological capability to abuse their gatekeeper
position.

Our challenge is to achieve two equally important goals: ensure
incentives for private investment in broadband infrastructure so the
U.S. has world-leading networks and ensure that those networks are fast,
fair, and open for all Americans.

The Open Internet Order achieves those goals, giving consumers,
innovators, and entrepreneurs the protections they deserve, while
providing certainty for broadband providers and the online marketplace.

The Open Internet Order reclassifies broadband Internet access as a
“telecommunications service” under Title II of the Communications Act
while simultaneously foregoing utility-style, burdensome regulation that
would harm investment. This modernized Title II will ensure the FCC can
rely on the strongest legal foundation to preserve and protect an open
Internet.

Allow me to emphasize that word “modernized.” We have heard endless
repetition of the talking point that “Title II is old-style, 1930’s
monopoly regulation.” It’s a good sound bite, but it is misleading when
used to describe the modernized version of Title II in this Order.

Today’s Order will also use the significant powers in Section 706, not
as a substitute but as a complement. This one-two punch applies both
Title II, as well as Section 706, to protect broadband Internet access.
It is the FCC using all of the tools in its toolbox to protect
innovators and consumers.

Building on this strong legal foundation, the Open Internet Order will:

-   *Ban Paid Prioritization:* “Fast lanes” will not divide the Internet
    into “haves” and “have-nots.”

-   *Ban Blocking:* Consumers must get what they pay for – unfettered
    access to any lawful content on the Internet.

-   *Ban Throttling:* Degrading access to legal content and services can
    have the same effect as blocking and will not be permitted.

These enforceable, bright-line rules assure the rights of Internet users
to go where they want, when they want, and the rights of innovators to
introduce new products without asking anyone’s permission.

The Order also includes a general conduct rule that can be used to stop
new and novel threats to the Internet. That means there will be basic
ground rules and a referee on the field to enforce them. If an action
hurts consumers, competition, or innovation, the FCC will have the
authority to throw the flag.

Under the Order we adopt today, open Internet protections would – for
the first time – apply equally to both fixed and mobile networks. Mobile
wireless networks account for 55 percent of Internet usage. We cannot
have two sets of Internet protections – one fixed and one mobile – when
the difference is increasingly anachronistic to consumers.

Today’s Order also asserts jurisdiction over interconnection. The core
principle is the Internet must remain open. We will protect this on the
last mile and at the point of interconnection.

We also ensure that network operators continue to have the incentives
they need to invest in their networks. Let me be clear, the FCC will not
impose “utility style” regulation. We forbear from sections of Title II
that pose a meaningful threat to network investment, and over 700
provisions of the FCC’s rules. That means no rate regulation, no filing
of tariffs, and no network unbundling. During the 22 years that wireless
voice has been regulated under a light-touch Title II like we propose
today, there has never been concern about the ability of wireless
companies to price competitively, flexibly, or quickly, or their ability
to achieve a return on their investment.

The American people reasonably expect and deserve an Internet that is
fast, fair, and open. Today they get what they deserve: strong,
enforceable rules that will ensure the Internet remains open, now and in
the future.
