# Statement of Commissioner Mignon L. Clyburn

Re: *Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet*, GN Docket No. 14-28.

Following years of vigorous debate, the United States adopted the Bill
of Rights in 1791. The Framers recognized that basic freedoms, as
enshrined in the first ten amendments to the Constitution, were
fundamental to a free and open democratic society.

James Madison gave life to the First Amendment in a scant 45 words,
which are fundamental to the spirit of this great nation. Almost two
centuries later, Justice William Brennan would write in the historic
1964 *New York Times v. Sullivan* decision that “debate on public
issues. . . [should be] . . . uninhibited, robust and
wide-open.”[^clayburn1] I believe President Madison and Justice Brennan
would be particularly proud of the rigorous, robust, and unfettered
debate that has led us to this historic moment. … And what a moment it
is.

I believe the Framers would be pleased to see these principles embodied
in a platform that has become such an important part of our lives. I
also believe that they never envisioned a government that would include
the input and leadership of women, people of color, and immigrants, or
that there would be such an open process that would enable more than
four million citizens to have a direct conversation with their
government. They would be extremely amazed, I venture to say, because
even we are amazed.

So here we are, 224 years later, at a pivotal fork in the road, poised
to preserve those very same virtues of a democratic society – free
speech, freedom of religion, a free press, freedom of assembly and a
functioning free market.

As we look around the world we see foreign governments blocking access
to websites including social media – in sum, curtailing free speech.
There are countries where it is routine for governments, not the
consumer, to determine the type of websites and content that can be
accessed by its citizens. I am proud to be able to say that we are not
among them.

Absent the rules we adopt today, however, any Internet Service Provider
(ISP) has the liberty to do just that. They would be free to block,
throttle, favor or discriminate against traffic or extract tolls from
any user for any reason or for no reason at all.

This is more than a theoretical exercise. Providers here in the United
States have, in fact, blocked applications on mobile devices, which not
only hampers free expression but also restricts competition and
innovation by allowing companies, not the consumer, to pick winners and
losers.

As many of you know, this is not my first Open Internet rodeo. While I
did vote to approve the 2010 rules, it was no secret that I
[preferred](https://apps.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/FCC-10-201A5.pdf)
a different path than the one the Commission ultimately adopted.
Specifically, I preferred: (1) Title II with forbearance, (2) mobile
parity, (3) a ban on paid prioritization, and (4) preventing the
specialized services exemption from becoming a loophole.

So, I am sincerely grateful to the Chairman for his willingness to work
with my office to better ensure that this Order strikes the right
balance and is positioned to provide us with strong, legally sustainable
rules. This is our third bite at the apple and we must get it right.

Today, we are here to answer a few simple questions:

-   Who determines how you use the Internet?

-   Who decides what content you can view and when?

-   Should there be a single Internet or fast lanes and slow lanes?

-   Should Internet service providers be left free to slow down or
    throttle certain applications or content as they see fit?

-   Should your access to the Internet on your mobile device have the
    same protections as your fixed device at home?

These questions, for me, get to the essence of the Open Internet debate:
How do we continue to ensure that consumers have the tools they need to
decide based on their own user experience. The consumer … not me, not
the government and not the industry, but you, the consumer, makes these
decisions.

Keeping in touch with your loved one overseas; interacting with your
health care provider, even if you are miles away from the closest
medical facility; enrolling in courses online to improve your
educational, professional or entrepreneurial potential without worrying
whether the university paid for a fast lane to ensure that the lecture
won’t buffer for hours because the quality has been degraded or
throttled; not wondering if that business affiliated with your Internet
Service Provider is getting preferential treatment over that start up
you worked so hard to establish.

We are here so that teachers don’t have to give a second thought about
assigning homework that can only be researched online because they are
sure that their students are free to access any lawful website, and that
such websites won’t load at dial-up speed. And, today, we are answering
the calls of more than four million commenters who raised their voices
and made a difference through civic, and sometimes not so civil,
discourse.

We are here to ensure that every American has the ability to communicate
by their preferred means over their chosen platform, because as one of
our greatest civil rights pioneers, Representative John Lewis, said so
eloquently: “If we had the Internet during the movement, we could have
done more, much more, to bring people together from all around the
country, to organize and work together, to build the beloved community.
That is why it is so important for us to protect the Internet. Every
voice matters and we cannot let the interests of profit silence the
voices of those pursuing human dignity.”

We are here to ensure that there is only one Internet where all
applications, new products, ideas and points of view, have an equal
chance of being seen and heard. We are here because we want to enable
those with deep pockets, as well as those with empty pockets, the same
opportunities to succeed.

There are many aspects of this item that I am particularly pleased to
support. And, while time and stamina prohibit me from naming them all, I
do want to highlight a few.

*Mobile Parity*. Users of mobile devices should not be relegated to a
second class Internet. We know that many low-income Americans rely
heavily on their mobile device and, for some, that mobile device is
their only access to the Internet. They need and deserve a robust
experience on par with their wired peers. So again, I thank the Chairman
for ensuring equality and erasing the mobile versus fixed distinction.

*No Blocking, No Throttling, No Paid Prioritization***.** The item
contains strong, clear rules to ensure that all content, all
applications and all bits are treated equally. These are all essential
to the free market and this is pro-competitive.

*No Loopholes*. We must also ensure that companies are not able to take
actions that circumvent or undermine the Open Internet rules, whether
through exemptions in the definition or at the point of interconnection.
And despite a flurry of press reports earlier this week, I would never
advocate for any policy that undermines FCC oversight or enforcement of
any open Internet protections including interconnection. I’m pleased
that the Order commits to monitor Internet traffic exchange
arrangements, and enables the FCC to intervene, if appropriate.

*Promoting Affordable Access.* I have also been vocal about my call to
modernize the Lifeline program, which has been stuck in an MC Hammer,
parachute-pants time warp since 1985. The Order enables the FCC to
support broadband as a separate service, which will truly help
low-income communities break out of digital darkness.

In the seemingly endless meetings with stakeholders, my office has heard
concerns from many sides. To some, the item does not go far enough,
others want a ban on “access fees,” and there are those who advocate a
ban on zero rating, and others, who feel that it goes too far, whether
on the scope of forbearance or the focus on interconnection.

We worked closely with the Chairman’s office to strike an appropriate
balance and yes, it is true, that significant changes were made at the
request of my office, including the elimination of the sender-side
classification. I firmly believe these edits have strengthened this
item. Reports that this weakens our legal authority over interconnection
are completely inaccurate.

But it should come as no surprise that, with any item in excess of 300
pages, there are a few issues I would have decided differently.

First, I would have preferred to readopt the unreasonable discrimination
and reasonable network management rules from 2010.

Second, I think we should tread lightly when it comes to preempting the
states’ ability to adopt and implement their own universal service
funds. Not doing so could put a strain on the tremendous federal-state
partnership that I have worked so hard to create, and state universal
service funds are completely distinct from any federal program.

Finally, I have been struck by how much rhetoric in this proceeding is
completely divorced from reality. While as a rule, I generally refrain
from responding, in this case, I must address concerns about rate
regulation.

Many of you know that reforming the inmate calling service regime has
been a priority for me. Despite clear legal authority, the FCC dragged
its feet for over a decade, while families, friends, lawyers, and
clergy, paid egregiously high and patently unlawful fees to make a
simple phone call to and from inmate facilities.

I bring this up today because the inmate calling proceeding represents a
prime example of how the FCC resisted rate regulation for years, even
where consumers were subjected to blatantly unreasonable charges by
providers with a clear monopoly, where severe costs to society were
evident, and where there was a clear case of market failure. So, for
those in a panic about rate regulation, there are millions who can
testify to how high the bar is when it comes to the FCC intervening on
rates and charges.

And I repeat this challenge to anyone willing to accept it: Highlight
examples, where the FCC has ruled that a rate is unreasonable in a
context other than inmate calling or a tariff investigation over the
last decade. To date, no one has come forth with any examples, and that
in and of itself is telling.

And, lest we forget, over 700 small broadband providers in rural America
offer broadband Internet access pursuant to the full panoply of Title II
regulation. They contribute to universal service and, amazingly, the sky
has not fallen and things are okay. Indeed, such carriers advocated that
the Open Internet proceeding not change their status and require a
lighter touch Title II.[^clayburn2] Their retail broadband Internet
access rates are not regulated, and I am unaware of any stream of class
action lawsuits. Even so, the item does assert primary jurisdiction to
reduce such concerns.

Mr. Chairman, today I support this item because I believe it provides
the strong protections we need and balances the concerns raised by
stakeholders, large and small.

The Order we are poised to adopt is not the product of some artificial
life force. A dedicated team from the Wireline Competition and Wireless
Telecommunications Bureaus and Office of General Counsel worked
extremely hard on this significant item. There are too many people to
thank, but I would be remiss if I didn’t mention Jonathan Sallet,
Stephanie Weiner, Matt DelNero, Claude Aiken, Marcus Maher, Roger
Sherman, Jim Schlichting, Joel Taubenblatt, and Michael Janson. And, of
course, I must thank my legal advisors, Louis Peraertz and Rebekah
Goodheart for their hard work and dedication. Last, but not least, I
want to thank you, the American people – more than four million strong,
for your role in framing this historic Order. Today, we better enable
millions to tell their stories, reach their potential and realize their
American ideals.

[^clayburn1]: *New York Times Co. v. Sullivan*, 376 U.S. 254 (1964).

[^clayburn2]: *See* Letter from Michael R. Romano, Senior Vice President
    Policy, NTCA, to Marlene H. Dortch, Secretary, FCC, GN Docket No.
    14-28; CC Docket No. 96-45; WC Docket No. 06-122, at 2 (Feb. 13,
    2015) (“NTCA and NECA urged the Commission to ensure that small
    rural telcos such as those within their respective memberships can
    continue to avail themselves of the option to tariff
    broadband-capable transmission services that underpin retail
    broadband Internet access services.”).
