# Statement of Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel

Re: *Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet*, GN Docket No. 14-28.

Our Internet economy is the envy of the world. We invented it. The
applications economy began here—on our shores. The broadband below us
and the airwaves all around us deliver its collective might to our homes
and businesses in communities across the country. What produced this
dynamic engine of entrepreneurship and experimentation is a foundation
of openness. Sustaining what has made us innovative, fierce, and
creative should not be a choice—it should be an obligation.

We also have a duty—a duty to protect what has made the Internet the
most dynamic platform for free speech ever invented. It is our printing
press. It is our town square. It is our individual soapbox—and our
shared platform for opportunity.

That is why open Internet policies matter. That is why I support network
neutrality.

We cannot have a two-tiered Internet with fast lanes that speed the
traffic of the privileged and leave the rest of us lagging behind. We
cannot have gatekeepers who tell us what we can and cannot do and where
we can and cannot go online. And we do not need blocking, throttling,
and paid prioritization schemes that undermine the Internet as we know
it.

For these reasons, I support Chairman Wheeler’s efforts and rules today.
They use our existing statutory tools, including Title II authority, to
put back in place basic open Internet policies that we all rely on but
last year our courts took away. The result honors the creative,
collaborative, and open Internet envisioned by those who were there at
the start, including the legendary Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the creator of
the World Wide Web—whom we have had the privilege of hearing from today.

This is a big deal. What is also a big deal is 4 million voices. Four
million Americans wrote this agency to make known their ideas, thoughts,
and deeply-held opinions about Internet openness. They lit up our phone
lines, clogged our e-mail in-boxes, and jammed our online comment
system. That might be messy, but whatever our disagreements on network
neutrality are, I hope we can agree that’s democracy in action and
something we can all support.
